Counselor：So, as we were talking, you said one thing a couple of times about how you felt like it was your fault. Is that a thought that you have pretty often these days?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Sounds like it sort of comes back in your head kind of over and over again. When you have that thought, how does it make you feel sort of in your body emotion?
Client：I just feel like such a failure. It makes me just want to curl up, and I just feel so useless. I just feel like everything I touch, I'm doing it the wrong way, and it's making things worse instead of better.
Counselor：Have you ever found that there might be another explanation? Could there be other explanations of each of these troubles that's different than that it's all your fault?
Client：Well, there's just a lot going on in our life. So when I think of my son's trouble at school, I really haven't even had the time to really think about how the change in our life is affecting the kids. It's a big change. I mean, he's really close with his dad, right?
Counselor：So the fact of his dad being away might be something that might be an explanation. Other explanations can. Why don't we just go with this a little bit? Are there other explanations of things that you kind of feel like are your fault? That where there might be another way of thinking about it?
Client：I just feel like there's more that I could be doing. I mean, it's not always that. It's, you know, like, my family is having a lot of financial problems, and that's because my dad lost his job. But I just feel like the struggle that they're in right now is my fault because I'm not there helping them.
Counselor：Right. So you said, I feel like there's more that I could be doing. It sounds to me like whenever you notice something that isn't right, that that's a first thought that comes in your mind, is that fear that there was more that you could be doing. Okay, very clear. If you were able to think something different at that point, how might that be useful?
Client：Well, I think I get sort of derailed by thinking that. And like I said, I just get hopeless. It almost paralyzes me just thinking that I failed and there's nothing I can do.
Counselor：If you were to think something that was also true, but something different at the point that you encounter a problem, what might that be? Let me give you a possibility. It's not definitely free, but often people have things that they're proud of, things that they've done well, that they don't notice or don't think about, but that if they spend a moment kind of focusing on it starts to give them a kind of a template for what the next action might be. If we were looking for the Ana made things better story, what would. Where would we go? What would that story be?
Client：Well, I think I'm really proud of my job.
Counselor：Very clear. Very clear.
Client：You know, I. You know, I used to clean hotel rooms and really thought that that was how far I'd get. And I worked really hard to get my new job, and I got promoted, and I'm a manager now.
Counselor：And do you think that that might be helpful for your children?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And how might it be helpful for your children?
Client：Well, I mean, financially it helps. Yeah. And also, I just feel better about myself, and I am less tired at the end of the day because I enjoy what I'm doing.
Counselor：Yeah. Very nice. I wonder also if there are little things that you enjoy doing during the day that we might add. Sometimes when people can. It's helpful to think about something that reminds you of things you enjoy, but it's also helpful to do something you enjoy, even if it's just a tiny thing, even if it's having a cup of tea or going for a walk or patting the dog. Something that makes you feel really enjoy that moment. Is there something you might try pretty regularly, like every day? One thing that you enjoyed?
Client：I really like reading with the kids.
Counselor：Okay. Very clear. So what I would wonder if we might do is have you, when you get that thought, that, oh, my goodness, here's a problem. It's all my fault. If you could spend just a minute of time focusing on what you've done to make your job work, how many problems you've overcome, how important it is for your children and your husband, and even for the possibilities to help your family because you've done this. And if you might be able to also essentially reward yourself once a day by reading with the kids, would that be all right? Are you willing to try that? I'd really like to come back and check in with you when you come back to see your doctor. My understanding is you're going to be back in a couple of weeks. How about if I drop in and see how things are going then? And if you feel like things are on track, then we'll. It'll be great. Be glad to see it. And if it feels like this may be a good idea, but this isn't enough. We really need to do something else. Then maybe you and I might do more work together.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Okay. Great.
Client：Sounds great. Thank you.