Counselor：Hi, how are you?
Client：Good, and you?
Counselor：Good. Glad to have you back. So last week we discussed your feelings of loss and abandonment and your sense of dread associated with that. And I had you write down incidents that occurred during your daily routine of when you were feeling that sense of dread. Were you able to come up with incidences and if so, what were they?
Client：Yeah, last week I was on my way to class and my girlfriend actually called me up saying that I forgot to take out the trash. And I kind of started thinking, wow, like, I forgot to take out the trash. Something so simple, a simple chore. All I had to do was take out the trash today and I forgot to do it. And then I started to think, well, I can't do something as simple as that. Why is she still with me? Or, and why, why can't I do that? Why can't I do a simple task? Am I good enough for anyone? Am I good enough for her? Kind of starting to feel a little fearful that she would just up and leave me.
Counselor：Why were you feeling that she would just leave over something as simple as forgetting to take out the trash?
Client：I don't know. I kind of don't know why. I just didn't like the way that she was talking to me and got so upset about it. And then I figured that, you know, I can't remember to do something so simple. Why is she still with me? I'm not good enough. I don't know.Just got scared
Counselor：have past experiences, maybe played a role in this feeling.
Client：Yeah. So I told you last week that my mother passed, left me. And I don't know, I kind of feel like she could do the same thing or my girlfriend's going to do the same thing. I've had other girlfriends before, but I guess since I'm older now and relationships are more serious, I kind of see her as someone I want to spend my life with. And my mother didn't do that. She left me when I was ten and I kind of felt abandoned. And I feel like, you know, if I had a serious girlfriend, as I do now, I feel like that could be a possibility of her leaving me and me being able to try to figure my way out in life again and starting all over, and I don't want to go back to that dark place again.
Counselor：You're generalizing your past experience with your mother onto the current relationship with your girlfriend. And why do you think those two who are associated?
Client：I don't know. I guess I was getting that unconditional love before with my mother, before she left me. And I kind of feel like my girlfriend has given me that love and kind of fearful of losing that love that someone cares and loves for me, for who I am. But I guess when I'm doing something so simple or forgetting to do something simple, or I. I have these moments where I feel like I'm not good enough and she's gonna leave me, too.
Counselor：You're overgeneralizing and catastrophizing. Can you see how you're doing that?
Client：Yeah, I do. I'm fearful of losing my girlfriend, as I once did with my mother, because I felt like, you know, I did something wrong.
Counselor：How do you think we can change these negative thoughts in your head when these incidents are occurring and change them into positive ones?
Client：I don't know. Do you think speaking to my girlfriend about it or when I'm feeling these fearful acts or thoughts?
Counselor：So I think that would be a good tool for you, would be to talk to your girlfriend. Anytime you feel that sense of dread and you're starting to feel negatively, I think you should also write it down and take whatever negative thought you had, replace it with a positive and write that down as well and how you battled through it. I think that would be a really good exercise for you. And I think we can come up with a couple more strategies next week. Mean, you could collaboratively work together and do that. Would that be something that you would be interested in doing?
Client：I think that's a good homework assignment. Hopefully, I can get it done and help me out in the long run.
Counselor：Okay, you can work on that for the week, and then next week we'll discuss further what else we can do.
Client：Awesome.