Counselor：Hi, Jesse. How you doing today?
Client：Not too good. Doctor Grande?
Counselor：Not so good.
Client：Nah. I just got into a. I got into a fight with my parents.
Counselor：What's been going on?
Client：Well, I. I've been doing heroin for a few months now, and I didn't think my parents knew, but I guess they. They found a needle in my room and, I mean, they knew what I was doing, and they. They told me that I have to start shaping up and I need to stop doing any kind of drugs because they said. They said the next time that they find any kind of drugs, then that's it, they're going to kick me out of the house.
Counselor：All right. So they're at the point where anything else happens and they discover it, and you're out in the street. Right. What are your feelings about being out in the street?
Client：I don't want to be out there. I don't know. I don't know who would be. I mean, it would be hard just to kind of stop cold turkey. I know a couple of buddies that did that, and it's not good when you get junk sick. And, I mean, I'm kind of stuck because. I don't know. I don't want to be out on the streets, but it's just going to be so hard, so hard to give it up.
Counselor：So there are conflicting feelings here. You don't want to be out in the street, but you don't want to give up the heroin at the same time.
SPK_3：Right. Right.
Client：I just. I mean, I don't want to give it up, but I mean, I kind of know I have to. I mean, I'm a young guy. I couldn't make it outside of my parents house, and I definitely don't want to be on the streets.
Counselor：You want to stop to avoid the consequences, what could happen, right. But to this point, you haven't been able to.
Client：I mean, I guess at this point, I really haven't had, like, something that would make me, like, I've been doing it for a while, and, I mean, it's been pretty great, but I, you know, I never really had any kind of, like, problem with it. And nothing too bad has happened. So this is kind of the first time I've been like, something's hit me where it's like, oh, man, I really gotta stop it.
Counselor：So this is the first consequence or potential consequence that's motivated you since you started using? How strong is the craving to use?
Client：I mean, when I first started, it was. I mean, it was pretty freaking great. I mean, the rush that you get from it. It's. It's just mind numbing. It's. It's just amazing. But I've. I've noticed recently that, like, the rush isn't as intense anymore, and it's even, like, it's even kind of started to backfire a little bit where, like, actually, I'll feel a little sick without using it. And that, I mean, that kind of scares me. But the crazies are definitely still there.
Counselor：All right, so when you try to cut back, have you tried to cut back?
Client：I had before, but, I mean, there was no reason to, so I didn't try very hard.
Counselor：But when you did try, did you have the feeling where you were getting sick?
Client：I did, yeah. It wasn't as bad as any of my buddies, but I definitely. I mean, I didn't feel well.
Counselor：Have your parents given you any options in terms of, like, do they understand that you're. It seems like you're a little dependent on.
Client：Yeah, I mean, they, they do. I definitely, like, I don't hold anything against my parents. Like, actually, I have a pretty good relationship with them. I know what I'm doing isn't good for me. And they said that they would completely support me. They told me that they have a place picked out where I can go and that they'd be willing to pay for it and everything. But they said if I don't meet them halfway, then it's just. That's it. They're done.
Counselor：All right, so they have a solution, in a sense, for what's going on, right? Like, it's like a detox.
SPK_3：It is.
Counselor：Okay, detox. So they have a. They have a solution to help get you off the heroin, but there's still. There's still part of you that doesn't want to go that route.
Client：I mean, I, you know, I think. I think I'm starting to come to terms, and it's. That. That it's time to stop. And it might be good that maybe I'm stopping so early. I know. I know my friends have been doing it for a lot longer than I have, but I just. I don't know if the detox is going to work. I mean, it's hard for me to focus on, like, anything until sometimes. Until I get my next fix.
Counselor：All right, so there's a few problems here. So one is, can you. Can you commit to going to detox? And the second is, even if you successfully complete that, when you come back out, you can avoid the heroin.
Client：Right. It's tough right now because, actually, my dealer lives in my neighborhood. I mean, he's, I mean, he's just, like, a few. A few houses down. My girlfriend lives in our community, too, and, like, he's. He's on the way to her house, so, like, I'll. I'll kind of just maybe pick it up on my way, throw him. Throw it in my book bag, and then get. Hang out with my girlfriend a bit, and then maybe on my way back home, I'll shoot up the buddy, so.
Counselor：Right, so really, you're running into him as you walk to your girlfriend's house, right?
Client：Yeah, yeah.
Counselor：And he's there, and the temptations is great. And.
Client：I mean, it's like, that house is kind of, that's where I shoot up a lot. So it's like, whenever in his house. Right, right. So it's like, whenever. Whenever I'm coming up to his house, I'm like, I start getting excited. You know, I started anticipating how. How great it's gonna feel the next time, and it's. I don't know. It's, like, stuck with me. I get excited when it's his house.
Counselor：So you have a feeling. So let's explore this. As you're walking up to the. Well, as you're getting ready to pass this house on your way to your girlfriend, you divert to kind of go to his house, and you have this feeling of excitement. What's the thought that's going through your mind?
Client：I kind of. I just can't wait for the next hit. Now I got past this house since my parents are giving me the ultimatum, and now it's kind of mixed. Cause I'm like, oh, man, if I go do that and somehow they find out, like, it's kind of all over for me. But on the other hand, I'm thinking about how great it's gonna be. I'm just kind of, like, I'm planning in my mind how much I'm going to do and, like, what kind of plans we'll have for the rest of the night.
Counselor：Okay, so you have a. You have a few things going on. Do you think, like, is your plan right now to go into the detox?
Client：It is. Yeah. It's. Yeah. I mean, my. My definite plan is to go in the detox. And if the detox works, like, I mean, I think I could be done with it, but it's just, I don't, I don't know if the detox can work. And, I mean, I've never. I only tried to cut back that one time. I mean, I don't know how good I'll be at it. You know, let's.
Counselor：Let's presume for a second that the detox would be successful and. And you wouldn't be. You wouldn't be on heroin coming out of detox. Right, right. You're worried at that point that you'll go right back?
Client：I don't know if I'll go right back. Like, I think if I can get off it, if the detox actually works like they say I do, I think I can stay off it. I think, like, my. I think my cravings will still always be there. But now that. It's, like, now that I've come to the realization of some of the stuff that I can lose if I get caught, I mean, if I can get off it for good, I don't. I don't think I'd go back. It might be hard, like, if I run into my buddy or something.
Counselor：That's the point of worry. Right.
SPK_3：Right.
Counselor：So there's. There is a concern that you'll. You could. You could go back if you run into them.
Client：Right.
Counselor：But if you could stay away from him, you think you'd increase your chances of being successful?
Client：Well, I mean, yeah, definitely. I won't. Like, there's so many, like, experiences in this house that kind of feed into the anticipation and the cravings. I mean, if that doesn't happen, you know, probably hope.
Counselor：When are your plans in terms of going into detox?
Client：Pretty soon, I think. I'm supposed to go on Monday, after the weekend, so, like, three days.
Counselor：Okay. So it actually sounds like what your parents have put in place, you believe will work. Right. You have confidence it'll work and that your worry is what worry you have is when you get out, can you avoid. Can you avoid your friend?
Client：Right.
Counselor：You don't buy from anybody else other than your friend.
Client：No. No.
Counselor：So that's really becomes the. Maybe one of your key goals here, since you're sound like you're committed to the detox part. Right. I'm reading that incorrectly. That seems to be something you're.
Client：No. Yeah. If it works, then I can try.
Counselor：So it's preparing for life after detox.
Client：Right.
Counselor：And avoiding. Well, you've heard the phrase people, places, things with the addictions or substance use. So in this case, you need to avoid, it would seem, your friend and where he lives, which is unfortunately not far from you and in between, like, his house is in between your house and your girlfriend.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So is there a way. This may seem a little odd. Is there a way to walk around the block where you can completely avoid this house and still get to your girlfriend's house.
Client：Yeah. I mean, there is. It's kind of out of the way, but I think, yeah, I could go. There's like a. Like a horseshoe path. I could. Yeah, I could. I could, like, go up the block and, like, around the horseshoe, and then. And then I could, like, turn right and get her house there.
Counselor：She would never even see his house.
Client：Right, right.
Counselor：How about other options as well? Like, so there's that option. How about her coming over to where your parents live? Is that ever happened before?
Client：I mean, yeah, she's come over. So maybe if, like, maybe if I tell her that it'll help me out, she can, like, she can make that walk, and it'll be like.
Counselor：It'll be easier because she can walk right by the house without a problem.
Client：Right, right. And, I mean, if I start walking out of the house, it'll be harder for me to actually do what I'm supposed to. So if I can't even leave and she comes, that might be best.
Counselor：And to get to work, do you have to pass this house?
Client：No, not at all. I work down the road, so I just drive. I drive the other way out of the community.
Counselor：So there's kind of some, like, really, there's a physical kind of slash behavioral strategy here, which is just physically keeping you away from having to go buy his house. And it sounds like the only reason, other than to buy and use drugs, is to see your girlfriend.
Client：Right.
Counselor：And there's an alternative strategy here. Right. She. She come to you. Or you could go all the way around and then all the way around back.
Client：Right.
Counselor：To return and to get back and forth to work. You don't have to go by his house at all.
Client：Yeah. Yeah, I could do that, actually.
Counselor：Is there ever a time where he comes to you?
Client：Honestly, not that much. Now. He obviously, he doesn't. He doesn't really like to leave his house much. He's kind of the only one who lives there. So that's kind of. He just deals out of there and then shoots up there. So he stays in his ass most of the time. So now he doesn't even come out.
Counselor：And we know that there's automatic thoughts. We talked about this before. Right. There's automatic thoughts that lead to feelings and behaviors.
SPK_3：Right.
Counselor：And can you identify a specific thought that may occur or maybe has occurred not related to walking by his house, but when you've been in your house like, that maybe has motivated you to go walk to his house.
Client：Right. I'm bored? Yeah, straight up. I mean, when there's nothing to do with the house, my parents are gone. It's the best way to have fun.
Counselor：So you've identified a thought that directly connects to a behavior you want to avoid. Right. So on board. So, on board leads to using the drugs, because that would alleviate the boredom. Right.
Client：Right.
Counselor：Is there an adaptive response that you can put in right there that you can interject right at that moment when you say, I'm bored? Is there an adaptive response you could apply? Let's assume this is post detox, right? Sounds like that's your plan. You're sitting in your house. Detox is done. There's no more, you know, we would hope, withdrawal type symptoms.
Client：Right.
Counselor：The thought comes upon you on board. What's a self talk piece that could be interjected there?
Client：I think, like, if I. If I remember to think what I don't want to do when I think that I'm bored, like, I just kind of come up with something else. So right now, usually my two choices when I'm bored are either to go to my buddy's house or go to my girl's house who's across from my buddy. So maybe that could just be one of the times where I call my girl and be like, hey, can you just come over and we can do something just to kind of distract me from wanting to go over to his place?
Counselor：Adaptive responses call my girlfriend.
Client：Right.
Counselor：I'm bored. And she. You know, it sounds like what you said. She's really supportive of you quitting.
Client：Yeah, I mean, she wasn't too happy with me doing it. She doesn't use, so, I mean, there's that. So she'll be all. She'll be all on board for that.
Counselor：Seems like consequences motivate you, right? I mean, that's what brought you in today, like, to talk, anyway. So I'm wondering if another adaptive response couldn't involve, you know, I don't want any trouble. You know, and you can substitute a lot of words in for trouble. There's all kinds of trouble that can occur from use in heroin.
Client：Right, right.
Counselor：So getting kicked out of your house. I don't want to. You know, I don't want to get kicked out of my house. I'm clean. And there's something else I can do here other than drugs.
Client：Right.
Counselor：Like, I'm thinking in times when your girlfriend might not be around.
Client：Okay. Right.
Counselor：So you still want to have. You want to have an adaptive response that's not necessarily tied to a person in case she isn't around. So you can use that one. Certainly that's a good one. But when she's not around and you kind of revisit those consequences in your adaptive response, do you think that's going to be enough motivation to keep you from going to the house?
Client：Yeah, I do. I mean, I, like, as of right now, work scones. Good. Like, school is going good, so I don't, like. I really don't want any problems. And I think, like, now I'm starting to realize that if I. If I do keep using, it's not just gonna be something like that I do when I'm bored or like, that I'm doing for fun, it's gonna turn into, like, a problem that's going to kind of affects everything else. So I think, like, if I just remember to tell myself, like, when I'm feeling bored, if I just remember to tell myself, like, I don't. I don't want to be out in the streets and, like, essentially, I don't want to lose my job. Like, I think telling myself those things, it'll help remind me, like, kind of what's at stake, you know?
Counselor：Good, good. So it sounds like you have some adaptive responses to use. Nothing occurs to me. Is your parents around much?
Client：Yeah, I mean, my dad works a lot. My mom's usually home. She works, too. It's like a part time job. So she's usually, like, home at night.
Counselor：And is it at night one of the times when you've gone over to your friend's house?
Client：Well, it's actually. It's more during the day.
Counselor：It's more kind of late. So she could be an asset in terms of trying to stop you from leaving the house, but only when she's there.
Client：Right.
Counselor：And similar to your father, you know? So it's really. I guess we kind of narrow it down to when you're at home alone and particularly when your girlfriend's not available. That's your highest risk time.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So we have the cognitive adaptive responses that can be employed, but I wonder if there's anything more behavioral we can do. Like, can you go somewhere else?
Client：Well, I think, like, one of the. One of the other things I do to kind of clear my head is I always go for a drive. So, like, if I. If I start feeling bored, I think maybe if I, like, get in my car and, like I said, I don't have to pass his house. If I just drive away, like, just physically leave the temptation. And then, like, from there, I can go to a bookstore or, like, a comic book store, or I could spend hours in there. So maybe if I can, like, I can remind myself to drive away, go to those stores, and, like, maybe I can just kind of stay out there late enough till either, like, my girlfriend's home or my parents come home.
Counselor：I think that's a good. I think it's a good plan. Yeah. And remember that the more we apply these adaptive responses.
Client：Right.
Counselor：What we hope is that you, the risk decreases, like, your craving, decreases, your motivation to stay clean increases. So while it may be a little inconvenient to drive someplace every time no one's available and you get that thought, that might not be something I do forever.
Client：Right.
Counselor：But that will minimize the risk for now. And we want to focus on the short term first, and then we'll worry more about the midterm and long term circumstances may change. Maybe he won't reside there forever. Maybe somebody's work schedule will change. Maybe there are other adaptations you can make. But for now, I think this would be a good way to go, just keeping you away from the circumstance that you definitely don't want so. Good. There's a few behavioral pieces we have in here and then a few cognitive as well. So I want to see in a couple days before we go into detox so that we can practice some of these adaptive responses. I like you to practice them at home between now and then as well. Right. And these behavioral responses as well. But we'll try to get them shored up right before detox, and I'll see it right after you come out as well.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：And we'll make sure that we just keep working on applying and refining these adaptive cognitive responses and these adaptive behavioral responses.
SPK_3：Right?
Counselor：Does that sound like a plan?
Client：Yeah, I definitely. I think that would definitely help, especially being with you or add your detox. That would definitely be the best.
Counselor：I appreciate you coming in, Jesse, and I'll see you in a couple days.
Client：Yeah. Thank you. Thank you.
Counselor：Thanks.