Counselor：Alright. Sorry for the interruption. It's okay. You gotta do a room change. So. To pick off where to leave? To pick up where we left off. You're talking about the feeling you get when you make new friends. And you're talking about excitement. What else?
Client：And just being really nervous when I meet them because it's like, what they'll think of me.
Counselor：And has anyone ever. What makes you nervous about what they'll think of you? Because you said you were popular before, so.
Client：Yeah, just because I've always known what it feels like to be cool and to have friends and to not be in a position where I'm all alone. So I think just the thought of this being a reality, which it is, is just really scary. And I think the worst of it and.
Counselor：Yeah, so it sounds like there's a drastic change from being popular, feeling very alone and not having any friends. So it's a transition for you.
Client：Yeah. How do you.
Counselor：How are you adjusting with that? Besides going out to bars and making new friends? What are some other feelings you get with that transition?
Client：Well, just kind of. Helpless and hopeless, really. Like I said, just finding a job. I really don't know what I want to do anymore. After I graduated, I thought I was gonna get into business, but I just really don't know if that's for me. My parents always kind of gave me everything too. So the reason why I have my own apartment is because they bought it for me. But it was under the conditions of having to be in the same town as them. And so it's like I'm at a loss and I could continue just loving off my parents money, but then that kind of feels. I feel like I don't have a purpose. Like my purpose really just going to be to live off my parents money and kind of do whatever they want me to do and just to keep their money and their resources. So I'm just kind of at a loss right now in my life.
Counselor：Did you feel that way when you were in college?
Client：No. I was having time in my life. It was. I wasn't even thinking about anything like this or the next step or what's gonna happen after I graduate. And I thought I would, you know, get a really cool internship through some business company. But at the time I didn't really. I wasn't really seeking it out because I was just having fun.
Counselor：So now you're feeling like you have to actually make plans and be more self sufficient?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Do you feel like you. You mentioned being hopeless. Is that preventing you at all from taking the next step or initiating the next step in your life?
Client：I feel like I'm trying. It's just. I don't know what to do about it, though. Like, I. There's only so much you can do when you don't know what the next step is for you or what you're passionate about or. So it's hard to go in any direction when.
Counselor：You don't know what direction you want. Have you had any ideas about what you're passionate about or any.
Client：Well, I wish, like, partying was a job, but it's not. I mean, I love to have fun. And. I don't really have. I don't know.
Counselor：It sounds like you may be a little confused almost because you said you didn't want the party type friends, but you're really passionate about partying.
Client：So.
Counselor：Is there a difference between.
Client：I think after graduating, though, it almost became exhausting. So I think you're right. That used to be who I am, and I. That's all I've been passionate about. But when I listen to people talk now, it almost sounds like. Like we're older. Like we can't possibly do this, continue to do this, like, on an ongoing basis. So maybe I'm tired of it, but then I can't think of anything that's made me happy. Or maybe I just kind of resent them because they're still living something that I know I shouldn't be doing anymore. I don't know.
Counselor：So you may feel like there's a. You're almost moving on from that part of you, and you don't maybe like that part of you, so you don't like that part of other people.
Client：Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：Well, I think we're ending our session, but I think we need some headway.
Client：I'm definitely cutting out the.