Counselor：Hi, Emma. How you doing today?
Client：I'm doing good.
Counselor：Doing good?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：What's been going on?
Client：I've been a little anxious about a shopping habit that I have.
Counselor：Yeah, tell me about that.
Client：Well, I have to buy everything in pairs or in twos. And if I only have one thing, I won't buy it. I'll put it back or I'll look around the store for another thing so that I have two things to buy.
Counselor：Oh. So when you go into a store, if you just have one thing you want to buy one item you went there for, you will buy a second item or even more or just a second.
Client：Sometimes it can be more as long as it's reached the minimum of two.
Counselor：So you have to leave having purchased a minimum of two.
Client：Right.
Counselor：Or if you can't find something else, you won't buy it at all.
Client：Exactly.
Counselor：So zero would also be acceptable.
Client：Zero would be acceptable, yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：But one more.
Client：No, no, no. I can't do just one.
Counselor：Can't do one.
Client：Can't do one.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：No, it's got to be two or more.
Counselor：And what happens? Has there ever been an occasion where you've only purchased one thing?
Client：I can't really remember one. I'm sure there has been, but I.
Counselor：Can'T really remember one, so. And then how long has this been going on?
Client：A number of years.
Counselor：Long time. Okay, so for all this period of time, you have successfully either purchased nothing or two or more items?
Client：Oh, yeah. I have to. It's very anxiety producing if I don't.
Counselor：How anxiety producing?
Client：I just feel like something bad will happen if I don't keep it to two or more.
Counselor：Do you know what would happen? Like, give a specific.
Client：Well, for example, like, my family would be in a car accident or I would hit a deer or, you know, get fired from my job or, you know.
Counselor：Okay, so something really, really bad would happen. So this is hurtful for you? This is causing you pain?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And this would happen. This would really happen on any shopping trip where you just wanted one thing.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：You'd be reminded. So if you went in wanting more than one thing, it's not a problem. Right.
Client：Right. It's if I only really need one thing and then I can't just buy that one thing that I need.
Counselor：All right, so how often does this happen where you are in a situation where you want to make a purchase of just one item and you have to. You have to change because the anxiety.
Client：Daily. Daily, yeah, because, I mean, if I go grocery shopping or if I go clothes shopping or if any kind of money transactional thing, you know, which I would encounter daily. Pretty much.
Counselor：How about, like, filling up your car at gasoline?
Client：Oh, then I'll buy a pack of cone.
Counselor：So it has an effect at that level, too.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So you're thinking that almost, like, the number of transactions has to be more than one. I mean, it has to be two or a. Or zero.
Client：Yeah, yeah, I guess so. Yeah. Number of items or number of transactions. Yeah, because, see, if I get gas, then I have. The gas is in my car. That's a thing.
Counselor：That's one transaction and one thing. And one thing. Okay. And then, okay, so that's one product.
Client：Right.
Counselor：And you need another product.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So you really can't fuel your car without going inside the. No, the station.
Client：No.
Counselor：Okay. So it doesn't matter that there's more than one gallon going in. This is the same product.
Client：Exactly. Exactly, yes.
Counselor：So I could see now this. This would be more of a daily thing like you said, right?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Because at first I was thinking, daily. That's a lot of individual shopping trips, but it applies to all transactions.
Client：Exactly, yeah. I didn't really realize it that way, but it does. Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：So this is a fairly significant source of anxiety for you.
Client：Yes, it is. It does. I get, you know, it, like, builds up in me and I feel it.
Counselor：So let's talk about that and help me to understand this better. So let's say that you went to a convenience store and you just had one thing in mind, what might be a potential item that you would.
Client：Gum.
Counselor：Gum. So you want to go in and you just want to buy a pack of gum. That's all you really want. That's why you stop at the store. So you go in. Do you have any thoughts? We talked in the past about automatic thoughts. These thoughts just kind of come in.
Client：Right.
Counselor：Are there any thoughts in that are happening when you're walking into the store?
Client：Yeah, I start. I start with, what do I need? Why am I here? You know, I need the pack of gum. And then it's instant anxiety that, what else am I gonna get? What else can I get to make it the two.
Counselor：All right, so the thought is, what else can I get? Yeah. Like, that's what has to be too.
Client：Has to be.
Counselor：It has to be too.
Client：That's not. Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：So that thought's a little less demanding.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So it has to be.
Client：Yes. I guess the first thought is, what else? What else do I have to get? Yeah.
Counselor：And then you said, jumps right to the anxiety. So is the anxiety relieved. If you can decide on a second item and you select it.
Client：Yeah. It starts going down.
Counselor：Okay. So it's really grabbing gradually. Yes, but it is relieved.
Client：It is relieved, yes.
Counselor：And when's it completely gone?
Client：When I'm done that. When I've left the store. I'm done. The transaction. I've left the store.
Counselor：All right, so you. So really, the worst anxiety would be approaching the store, entering in that moment of uncertainty when you don't know the second thing that you're going to buy.
Client：Absolutely, yes.
Counselor：That's really the target area.
Client：Yeah. Yes, it is.
Counselor：Okay, so if you could relieve that anxiety, that would be one of your goals.
Client：That would be fantastic.
Counselor：That would be fantastic. All right, so let's think about it this way. Do you. Do you know the reason that you do this? Do you have any guesses?
Client：I would guess that. I mean, we've talked about, you know, my bad. Some bad experiences I had.
Counselor：They sound awful.
Client：Yeah, they. They were difficult. So I wonder if that's not somehow linked to this behavior somehow, you know, possibly.
Counselor：All right, so you've been through some really tough times, to put mildly. And what you're afraid of, if you only buy the one item, is something safety related happening?
Client：Yes. Yes. Like the car accident or the. Yes. Safety. Definitely. My personal safety or my family is safety.
Counselor：And I guess security.
Client：Like the job and security. Yeah, and, yeah, security.
Counselor：So safety and security, they're at risk for you.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：When you don't follow this. The rule.
Client：My rule.
Counselor：Yeah. So if we think about it in terms of the cognitive, we talk about the core beliefs and the intermediate beliefs, which are the attitudes and assumptions, expectations. So the core belief here, do you have any thoughts on what it might be?
Client：Well, now that you said that or, you know, pointed out the safety security issue, I didn't really realize that, but it is maybe just that I'm not okay. I'm not safe.
Counselor：I'm not okay. I'm not safe. I am vulnerable.
Client：Vulnerable. Yeah, I'm vulnerable if I'm exposed.
Counselor：Exposed to danger.
Client：To.
Counselor：Yeah, sure. At risk.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So with that core belief, we move down to kind of like the assumptions, in this case, the rule. So the rule is I can stay safe if I transact involving only two or more products.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：All right, so that's your. That's your rule.
Client：That's my rule.
Counselor：And then when a situation presents itself, which would be an impending transaction or multiple. Right. That's the situation we talked about, how the situation blends together with that, in this case rule, that intermediate belief so when they come together, what's that automatic thought?
Client：When the situation and the trends, potential.
Counselor：Transactions approaching you and you had to earn me a belief of, I need to buy everything in twos, what else.
Client：Am I gonna get? That's your, that's my automatic thought.
Counselor：Yeah. And then what's the behavior that is a product of that automatic thought? I buy two, you buy the second item.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And the feeling. What's the feeling that follows that?
Client：That follows that purchase of two?
Counselor：Well, that follows the automatic thought.
Client：Oh, anxiety.
Counselor：Anxiety. And then what's the feeling that follows the.
Client：The purchase?
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：Relief.
Counselor：Relief. All right.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So can you see how the mechanism, what's happening to you could be explained? It's one explanation through the cognitive model.
Client：Very much. It fits it very well, I think. Yeah.
Counselor：Right. So let's talk about the rule of the rule of two. Now, we talked before when we were talking about cognitive therapy, about useful, less than useful thoughts. Right. Functional and less functional or dysfunctional thoughts. Do you think that sitting here now, not so much necessarily in the store, because I know that's probably a different thought process, but talking with me now, do you see a causal connection between purchasing two items and a safety or security breach or something bad happened? No.
Client：I mean, there's no. I recognize through our work and stuff that it's not, it doesn't make sense. It's not a useful. A useful thought.
Counselor：Maybe it's not a useful in this case thought, maybe not a useful intermediate belief.
Client：Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：So you recognize that, you appreciate that there's not a link between the purchasing behavior in either direction though, right? Meaning, so you realize that if you buy to, that doesn't necessarily keep you safe either. So you can't introduce safety or the process or risk of being unsafe. You can't introduce risk or safety through your transacting behavior.
Client：True. That's very true. Yeah.
Counselor：Does that make sense?
Client：Yeah, it does. It really does. I can't. It doesn't make, what you're saying makes sense, but it doesn't make sense to introduce safety or either side of the coin.
Counselor：Safety or risk or risk. They're not influenced by your behavior. Yeah, but that's not what your mind is telling you. That's not what your thoughts are telling you. That's logical. And you can sit here with me and it's maybe not easy to say, but you can say, yeah, I don't see a link.
Client：Yeah, I don't see a link, but I know what I feel. And what I feel is that impending doom. If you will.
Counselor：So let's talk about that moment. So in this moment, maybe a little anxious now, but you can kind of see how you can't protect yourself or cause harm to yourself or anyone else. Bye. Buying two or failing to buy two right in the store or wherever you make the transaction. Different story. So you have, let's go a different direction. I talked about how you walk into the store and you think, what else can I get? That was the thought, right? And you end up getting something else.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And the anxiety then kind of goes away, and it'll come up the next time that happens, but it's a wait. It's gone for that moment. So I want you to kind of stay with me as I go through another scenario. And maybe you've figured out what I'm going to do here. But let's say that you only have, maybe you forgot your credit card or cash or whatever, and you only have enough money for the gumdeh, and you want the gum. Let's just for a moment say it's really important to you, so it's not something you want to turn into a zero. You want to.
Client：I need it in your scenario.
Counselor：Okay, so maybe gum isn't the ideal example, but you seem like, yeah. All right, so you go into the, now you go into the store, you realize you only have enough resources to make the one transaction, and you really want it. So zero is not an option. So now walk me through the thoughts.
Client：And the feelings, what I would normally do.
Counselor：Or would I, what do you think would happen?
Client：I would panic. I mean, not panic like, you know, break down or something. But, I mean, it would be very, very stressful if I absolutely had to get that item. I would probably try to scrape change out of my car, but I know we're not going there.
Counselor：Stay with us.
Client：Okay, I know. Stay with us. But, um, I would be very, very difficult for me.
Counselor：Could you do it?
Client：I'm physically capable of doing it.
Counselor：Okay. And that is one level of being able. But how about in terms of your thinking and your feeling?
Client：I could do it. I could do it. I could get through it.
Counselor：And what would happen? How much anxiety would you experience, and would the anxiety fade off?
Client：It would fade off, I think. I mean, it would have to. I would imagine so. It would fade. I think it would take a longer period of time to fade than if I had just gotten even now, sitting here, but if I had just gotten another item. Okay. The world is going to be safe for another five minutes. We're good.
Counselor：Tell me what you're feeling right now?
Client：Very anxious.
Counselor：Very anxious.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Are you worried? Is the kind of anxiety where you're worried that something catastrophic is going to happen? Okay, so even talking about a transaction of one can lead to anxiety. Anxiety connected to this safety and security thing.
Client：Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：So you can. You can trigger that without a transaction even pending.
Client：Yeah, yeah. Yeah. So this is really scary for you sitting here. Yeah, yeah.
Counselor：Is it bearable, the anxiety you have now? Is it bearable?
Client：Yes, it's bearable. It's bearable.
Counselor：But it hurts, though.
Client：Yeah, yeah.
Counselor：It's hurting.
Client：Doesn't feel good.
Counselor：What do you feel is gonna happen?
Client：What's the anxiety about your scenario of having to. Having to get only one item or having. Only having the resources for one item?
Counselor：Okay, so it's not a safety and security. It's a. It's a concern about following through and buying one item on the rule.
Client：The rules, too.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And I'm talking about breaking the rule.
Client：I know. Yeah. It's terrifying.
Counselor：It's scary for you because. So you're anxious about that and you're also anxious about the consequence of that.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：You are.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And that's the safety and security.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：All right, so the anxiety you're experiencing right now in this moment with me, I wanted you be mindful of that. Keep that in your awareness and let me know if that changes. Just interrupt me if you need to. It's not.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：All right. So it might get worse, but it might get better. So is there something on your mind that you need to buy within the next couple days?
Client：Yes, coffee.
Counselor：Coffee. That's a transaction of one.
Client：Yes. So I'll get something else.
Counselor：Okay. Right.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Understandable. But what if. What if I challenged you to behavioral experiments? Okay, can you guess what that might be?
Client：To buy one coffee.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：This scenario, too.
Counselor：To buy one cup of coffee, and then I don't know where you're buying the coffee, but leave. Yeah. Wherever it is, leave. So what are the possible things that could happen? Knowing that logically, you can't connect it to a safety thing and you might be anxious about that. And that's real. That anxiety is real, but knowing that the event isn't prevented or caused by the transacting behavior. Let's go through what happens. So you buy the coffee, you're really anxious. You're up to it. You're anxious going, driving there.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So you're driving there. You're anxious. Maybe you have doubts. Maybe you have some thoughts of, I'm not going to do this, but let's say you fall through, buy a cup of coffee and you leave nothing. It doesn't change the safety and security aspect. What is different about that than if you bought two, you know, items?
Client：I would have a lot more anxiety, but I would really have to talk myself through that.
Counselor：Would it go away?
Client：I believe it would. The anxiety? I believe it would.
Counselor：So it'd be a more painful experience to buy the.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Yeah. But it wouldn't actually harm you in terms of safety? Not at all.
Client：Oh, yeah. No, not at all.
Counselor：But it would cause you more internal anxiety.
Client：Exactly.
Counselor：So what would happen if you did it again?
Client：I would hope that it would be less anxiety.
Counselor：Could be.
Client：Could be what?
Counselor：If you did it a hundred times?
Client：It could. It would get old. I think the anxiety would get old.
Counselor：So really what you're doing is you're conditioning. You'd be conditioning yourself. Right. To surviving. Just buying the one item.
Client：I'd have a lot more money.
Counselor：There'd be some financial advantages to it, certainly. Yeah. And there'd be, what I hope is a freedom advantage, which is the freedom to buy any number of items.
Client：That would be nice.
Counselor：So what scenario of purchasing. I know I asked for the coffee example. I mean, I asked for one thing you're going to buy and you mentioned the coffee. But what scenario could you see yourself being most likely to follow through with this? So I don't know if the coffee is the optimal situation for the behavioral experiment. It may be like, would there be another item that would be easier to actually fall through? Like, for example, the gasoline? Because you'd be at your car, you'd buy the gasoline and you'd leave.
Client：Yeah, that would be easier.
Counselor：You wouldn't be tempted by the other.
Client：I wouldn't have to walk through the cold to the store or to the, you know, the door of the.
Counselor：Would that be, you know, might be more or less anxiety provoking. But do you think that'd be easier to actually succeed?
Client：I think that would be much easier.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：Yeah. Because the other thing about the gas is that even though it's physically with me, the product is in my gas tank, I'm not holding it. I don't know. I think that that could be. Make it easier to follow through. Yeah.
Counselor：So we would. We would consider that kind of a step in a direction that would result in fewer symptoms.
Client：Yeah, that would be wonderful.
Counselor：And maybe another step in the future if we get there, see how it goes with this. But would be to go into the store and buy one. But let's not. Let's not do that. Okay, let's stick with the gasoline.
Client：Okay. I feel more confident about that.
Counselor：You feel like you could succeed with that experiment?
Client：We'll see when I actually get there, but, yes, I would like. I feel like I could actually try that more so than the coffee.
Counselor：So are you afraid with the coffee that you might just end up buying two things? Okay, so let's go with the fuel in your car. So the next time that your car needs fuel, go in, buy the fuel, drive away.
Client：Yes. And they have to pay at the pump. So that would be.
Counselor：But you don't even have to go.
Client：I don't even have to go into the store, so that would be great. Yeah.
Counselor：So how's your anxiety now?
Client：I feel better that I don't have to just buy one cup of coffee.
Counselor：Okay. So that was a stressor for me.
Client：But I feel it's mild, but okay.
Counselor：Better than it was a few moments ago. But mostly because the experiment that we're talking about is a little easier.
Client：Yeah. And because I think, like, the insight that you gave me on, I hadn't connected the safety, security. I hadn't connected all the dots. So that was very helpful.
Counselor：So one of the. And we talked about before with the automatic thoughts, like adaptive responses. Right. So as you're trying to kind of push through this experience of just feeling the car, you're gonna have those thoughts still come up. And the adaptive response could be something like, well, I'd like you to design it or work with me designing it, but could be something like, I know this won't actually have a consequence in the real world.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：I realize this is just how, you know, responding internally doesn't take away the anxiety, necessarily. It might, but it will help you maybe get through that process.
Client：Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：Does that make sense?
Client：Yeah, absolutely.
Counselor：There's a few things I'm asking you to do. Right. One is to just buy gasoline when you need it.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And only buy gasoline. And at the same time, when those thoughts come up to respond to them with the adaptive responses to kind of.
Client：Pair that to you. Yeah, I gotcha.
Counselor：Pair them together. Right. So I know this won't have a real consequence. In reality, that could be one. And if you have any others, you know, you can apply those as well. Talk about it. You can apply them. I know that I can tolerate the anxiety.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Seems like you've tolerated for a long time. It's not pleasant. It's not what you want, but you can tolerate it.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And maybe another adaptive response would be, this is painful for me, but if I can be successful here, maybe I can get rid of the anxiety someday.
Client：Yeah. The longer term picture. Yeah.
Counselor：And keeping your eye on moving up to coffee and other behavioral goals.
Client：I like that.
Counselor：Yeah. That makes sense.
Client：Yes. I like that a lot.
Counselor：So we're kind of attacking the anxiety from a lot of different angles here. Okay. And my hope is that the more we can replicate the behavior of just buying one item, the more your anxiety will decrease. We have other things we'll try, too. We'll work on it after responding, and we'll look at other angles. But I want to make that something we try early on.
Client：Okay. Yeah.
Counselor：So do you believe that you could succeed with this?
Client：I do.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：I do. It's been a long time, but the behaviors and the thought processes have been in place for a long time. So I think it'll be challenge, but I think, you know, it's time. Yeah.
Counselor：So. Well, that can be very positive. So that, you know, what I detected there was. You're ready to challenge this anxiety. Right. Like, what I detected there was courage.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Yeah. So you're ready to say, I've had enough, and you can see a clear path of behavior that can help you get through it, and you're ready to take the anxiety on. That can be a positive, adaptive response. Right. Like being assertive and saying. Almost like you're talking to the anxiety in a way.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Right. But I'm not gonna let you beat me this time. That's what you'd be saying to the anxiety.
Client：I like that. I like that one. Yeah.
Counselor：Like that one. So make a note of all these. Right. And you can use the same one more than once. You can mix them up, whatever works for you, but keep applying them as needed through the whole process until you're home. No more risk to go back and try. Because I think once you get home, really, that's the completion of only participating in that one transaction you've left. And if you go back, you're restarting the cycle. So you've permanently recorded just buying the one thing. So that's a victory.
Client：Yeah, that'd be a huge victory.
Counselor：So, I don't know if you know the status of your gas tank right now, your fuel level. Do you foresee need to get gas between now and next week? Oh, yeah, I will.
Client：I will need to do that. Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. So if you could try that out and if you could record kind of in the moment, like, after it's over, the experience in terms of your feelings, different stages, that would be helpful. As you pulled up to the gas.
Client：Station, kind of like the same as we were talking about, with the thoughts and all. Okay.
Counselor：Yeah. Except I think if you write them down right in the moment, that'll be the most accurate record.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：All right. And that also, I think, therapeutic, in a way.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Right. You're documenting the experience. Instead of letting that anxiety just sit. You're doing something. You're more active. And bring that in.
Client：Okay. I can do that.
Counselor：So try that out and make an appointment, and I'll see you next week, and we'll go over the different stages and everything and see how we did.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：All right.
Client：All right. Thank you.