Client：Hi. How you going?
Counselor：Hi, Liz. How are you?
Client：I'm okay.
Counselor：I haven't seen you about in ages.
Client：Do you mind if I come in?
Counselor：Yeah, sure.
Client：Do you have a spare moment?
Counselor：Yeah, I'm just writing up some counselling notes. I had all these kids coming in with bullying issues today, so we'll talk to the staff about that tomorrow. But anyway. Yeah, so can I.
Client：Can I talk to you about something?
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：I mean, I don't. I don't know. I'm really wondering if. I don't know. I don't know if this is what I'm cut out for just thinking about. Maybe I shouldn't even bother coming in tomorrow. Teaching's my thing. Maybe I need to find another job.
Counselor：What's going on? You want to tell me about what's happened to.
Client：I don't really know what to do. I really feel like I just, you know, failed sort of in everything I'm supposed to do. I don't know. You know, there's the new kid, Vince Rossi. And you heard, you know, what happened on the weekend. Well, last week on Friday, you know, the poetry assignment? He handed it in and he was just this really distressing poem. You know, he talked about his life being futile and a gun and all of this sort of thing, and it really worried me. And I did ask Nora about it. She didn't seem to think it was too much. And then I saw Chris and, you know, Chris was looking at an artwork, you know, which was. It was a really great one, but. And, yeah, and that was Vince's as well. And I. That just really distressed me. I got really worried and I thought that maybe I should have had something at the staff meeting, you know, that I was concerned for him and stuff. But, you know, Bob. I mean, he's been teaching for a long time, and he said, oh, you see, lots of kids go through stuff like that. It's just attention seeking. So I didn't bring it up at the staff meeting. And then anyway, all weekend I was really so busy with Mark, and I didn't really think about him anymore. But, you know, then I came to school on Monday morning. I was in such a hurry. I didn't really hear the news about him or anything until, like, first break, you know, I just.
Counselor：Yeah
Client：I really don't. I should have done something. I'm just feeling like I, like, you know, it's my fault if I brought it up on Friday. And then I went home.
Counselor：I couldn't.
Client：I just couldn't sleep. I just cried all the time. It was really my fault, like, said something. You know
Counselor：I can, I can see this is really. His attempted suicide really deeply affected you. And you were worried on Friday, and now you're really Tuesday afternoon, and you've been. You've been carrying this with you the last two days, if not, you know, the whole weekend. I mean, you were busy with. With your study and your marking.
Client：But think how much worse it's been for him. I mean, to try and kill yourself, you know, and I. The signs were there. I should have done something. I really should have. You know, it's really my responsibility and I just, you know, it's. It's my responsibility. And I feel so guilty that if I had said something on a Friday, we could have stopped him. You know, we could have gotten help or something, you know, reached out to him.
Counselor：But it's not your fault. It's not your fault, Liz. You know, I know you feel like you think it is at the moment, but, you know, that boy, I mean, he's only been here a few weeks. He arrived at the end of last turn and he came here deeply disturbed. Yeah. Yeah.
Client：But still, I mean, you know, especially from this poem. You know, it was. It was really obvious. And I. I just really feel that I did the wrong thing by just brushing it aside and not doing something else. You know, I just. I just think, you know, as a teacher, you know, I'm supposed to care about the kids and I've really, you know, you know, betrayed his parents trust in me and I breached my duty of care. Maybe I'm just not meant to be a teacher.
Counselor：You've just said so much there, Liz. Let's just slow down and breathe and let's think about a few things. So, you know, yes, you do care about the kids. I know. I know you do. I've known you for long enough, Liz, to know that you do put the kids first. But you have to be realistic and not so hard on yourself. You know, think back to, you know, other people in the school have discussed this sort of thing amongst themselves and not come to see me. You're the only one who's come to see me who's been very distressed about it. But I know that other people have had, you know, things to say about the situation. What happened? What happened when you came in on Monday? I mean, how did. How did that come?
Client：Oh, I didn't hear much at first. I didn't have a chance to go to the staff room or anything. And then, you know, at first break, Laura kind of said, did you hear about Vince and, oh, maybe you should have said something on Friday at the staff meeting. But, you know, in a way, it was her and Edward who told me not to. You know, they said it was, you know, nothing to worry about. And, you know, they've both been teaching longer than I have, so I guess I kind of trusted them with that. But, you know, I'm his teacher, and it's, you know, it's my responsibility. And I just feel, you know, maybe that poem was. Was him even asking for help. Maybe he wanted me to notice it and do something. I just.
Counselor：So.
Client：I don't know.
Counselor：So it's your feelings of guilt also, because you listened to Laura and Bob's comments, and then you made that decision not to. Not just say anything, and that's making you feel quite guilty.
Client：Yeah, I'm thinking that maybe, you know, my first instinct to say something was the right one, and that's my fault for making that choice when, you know, when a kid's, you know, mental health is at stake. You know, I should have. Should have just done the right thing. And now, you know, he's committed suicide. It's my fault.
Counselor：Well, he said he's okay. He's okay. All right. He's okay. Now, let's think about. Let's look at the words you're using there. You should have. You should have done this. You should have done that. I mean, where's it written that anybody should do anything? I mean, how do you know what was going to happen? You didn't know what was going to happen.
Client：I should have. I mean, in the poem, you know, he mentioned a gun and how futile life was, and I. And then seeing that artwork, you know, we're supposed to know. I mean, we're taught these things at uni. You know, we do some subjects about these sorts of things, and, you know, you're supposed to recognize you're not going to help these kids.
Counselor：You're not a mind reader. I mean, he probably didn't even know what was going to happen over the weekend. You think about all the other people who would have seen clues in some way. You know, Laura. Laura saw the poem. Laura saw the artwork. Chris and the art department, they were raving about the artwork. You know, no one was to know. And even myself, you know, I knew about. I knew about Vince's situation when he first came to this school. But under confidentiality, according to the parents, I wasn't allowed to say anything to him.
Client：Well, maybe I should have come to.
Counselor：You, but you wouldn't have known. Okay, now, I could easily be taking this on board myself as well. So could Laura, so could, so could Bob.
Client：But they've been teaching a lot longer. I guess they've seen more of this stuff. And I just don't know that I can cope with, you know, having to be responsible for kids. You know, I just. I don't know if I can do that. It's, you know, his parents trusted me to look after him and I didn't. Yeah.
Counselor：So what are you saying to yourself? Why are you feeling like running away from teaching is the answer. What sort of things are you saying to yourself?
Client：I don't know. I'm not good enough. Obviously, I can't cope. I mean, and obviously I can't choose the right thing to do, you know? Cause I didn't do the right thing.
Counselor：Hindsight's a wonderful thing, you know that it is. But, you know, you have to be realistic about the situation. There were clues evident to everybody and yourself undeniably about it. Maybe some other people did as well, but nobody did anything about it. That doesn't mean that that then led to his attempted suicide. We don't know what happened over the weekend. Okay, so there may have been some other factors come into play here that tipped him over. And there's also no guarantee, Liz, that if you had said something, that it could have prevented that attempted suicide. You just don't know. So I think you're being a bit hard on yourself, taking it along board like that.
Client：I just. I think maybe, you know, the poem was a cry for help. Maybe. Maybe if I just showed him that I cared about him, maybe that's all he needed. I don't know. You know, we have these kids, and I just feel like I'm responsible for them, you know, not just for teaching them, but for caring about them. And if I can't do that, maybe I'm in the wrong job.
Counselor：Look, I know you well enough there to know that you do care about these kids and that you do spend hours preparing for your lessons, marking as you were on the weekend. You don't put these kids second. You don't go, oh, I'll just worry about that tomorrow. I know you think hard and deep about things, you know, we've worked with each other long enough, you know, and I know you're a damn good teacher. And any kid that has you is lucky to have you as a teacher. But I think you need to be a bit easier on yourself, you know? Do you really believe that the function of a teacher is to be a whole array of different things, 100% of the time, to. To the kids. I mean, how can you possibly teach and be a little everything, but you.
Client：Still want them to know that if. If they need to talk to someone, that, you know, you're there for them.
Counselor：Sure, sure.
Client：You know, sometimes they can't talk to parents or things and I don't know, maybe I didn't make that clear enough, or.
Counselor：And maybe this is good, you know, for something for the future, you know, that will help you think. Okay, a few alarm bells are ringing here. Maybe I'm just going to go by my own instincts and have a chat with them, rather. And, okay, you talk to Laura and Bob and whoever else you spoke to, and they gave you your opinion, their opinion, you know, and ultimately it is up to you how far you want to take something. But, you know, if things don't work out as you expected, you shouldn't take it to heart and blame yourself because, you know, this world is not made for perfectionists.
Client：No, no, I suppose not. I just. I don't know, I just thought I'd have maybe more time to talk to him or. I suppose I just hoped that he would come to me. But, you know, I really hate to fail my students.
Counselor：Let's look at that one. You hate to fail your students? What does it mean to fail your students?
Client：Well, you know, to let something like this happen. You know, I want my students not just to learn English, but to grow and mature and be happy. I hate to think of them being miserable and not being able to talk to someone. I want to be that person for them.
Counselor：So let's review what you mean when you say that you had something like this happen. What do you mean that, you know, you shouldn't let something like this happen?
Client：Well, you know, to care for our students.
Counselor：Yes.
Client：To help them through difficult times. Right.
Counselor：You know, and how do you envisage doing that when you barely know a child and you don't? You see them three times a week and he's only been at the school for a few. A few weeks. So I suppose, really, how logically is it for you to take that all on board?
Client：Well, I suppose I want them to know that they can talk to me.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：I mean, that's not my job. You know, you're the counsellor, but I'd like to be able to let them know that there's help for them.
Counselor：Sure.
Client：And guide them towards you. Maybe not do it all myself, but, you know, I don't like to think that I just send them on their way, not caring about them.
Counselor：But you. You know yourself that you do care about them. Yeah. And, you know, building a relationship with students does take time. So, you know, in the situation with you and Vince, you know that that wasn't going to happen when he needed it because he barely knew you. And his structures around the school where you only see him three times a week, you know, that doesn't support. That doesn't support a relationship building approach either. So how can you blame yourself for not having that opportunity to build that relationship, to let them know that you are there, to listen, you know, lots of other factors in play here, Liz.
Client：Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：So, you know, let's think about what you were talking about before, you know, how you led this to happen. Do you still think you. You led this to happen?
Client：Well, no. I mean, I still kind of feel like I should have done something and maybe he still would have tried to kill himself, but, you know, I just feel that, you know, what if I had taken a moment to talk to him, okay? You know, just to let one. Him know that one person noticed, and it might not have changed anything, but it might have.
Counselor：And it might have. You're absolutely right. It might have. But we'll never know that. And there's your shoulds and what ifs. We can't change the past, but we can use the past to help us in the future. All right?
Client：Yeah. And.
Counselor：But I know. I'm still really concerned that you might think that you had at least something to do with this. But when you first came in here, you were really distressed. All right? Like, so on a scale of one to five, you were a five.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Now, how are you feeling now?
Client：I don't know. I mean, you know, talking about it does sort of put things into perspective. I mean, that. That's been great, you know?
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：I am just one person. I mean, I don't know, somewhere between a two and a three. I suppose. I do still worry that I didn't do enough. But as you say, I'm just one person in his life and I hardly know him. But, you know, that doesn't stop me from caring. But, yeah. Yeah, I feel better. You know, what can we do to.
Counselor：Make it a one or a one? What can we do?
Client：I don't know. I don't know. I guess make him come back to school healthy and happy. But, yeah, I suppose. I mean, knowing that he didn't succeed is a good thing, at least, you know? And now he's gonna get more help. That's right. To help him. So maybe, you know, it's. It's been taken out of my hands. That's good, too, knowing that, you know, ultimately, he's not my responsibility.
Counselor：Not alone, anyway.
Client：Exactly. Yeah. And that's good, because yesterday when I first heard it, I just really felt like it was all my fault. So. Yeah, you've helped me see and realize it's. Yeah. And I guess maybe in the future. Yeah, I'll feel better knowing that if I just have a quick word to students who, you know, display that kind of behavior and sentiments. So, I guess, you know, I'm better equipped to deal with the warning signs.
Counselor：Sure, sure. That's good. They can take that with you.
Client：I mean, I might need to come and talk to you again, you know, because I just. It's just still so raw, you know, and shocking.
Counselor：And I think that's part of it, too. You were really shocked when you found out Monday morning. And then when Laura, you know, said to you, triggered that, oh, dear, it is my fault. And then you go to all that irrational thinking, but I hope you can see that that is a bit emotive and irrational if you think things through clearly, like these are the facts.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And hopefully I've helped you see the bigger picture.
Client：Yeah. And help me to see that, you know, maybe teaching is still for me. I can still do it, I guess, just. Yeah, I don't know, equipping myself to keep going and not just let this knock me down flat. That's right.
Counselor：That's right. And that's really important. So if you are feeling flat again, come back straight away and have a chat, because it looks like you need a bit of sleep.
Client：I do. I've got hardly any sleep. You seem a bit dazed compared to.
Counselor：What you would normally like.
Client：Yeah. Yeah. Well, that's probably a good night's sleep. Probably get me down to a one as well. Just help me think more calmly. Yes. Last night I was just tossing and turning, just crying. I really felt the weight of it on me. And today as well. So. Yeah.
Counselor：So when you go home today, don't worry about any schoolwork tonight, okay? Eat a proper, proper dinner and cuddle that little girl of yours, give her a big hug, because she's important, too.
Client：Yeah, exactly.
Counselor：And just get some rest and see how you are when you wake up in the morning. And I'm here if you need to chat again.
Client：Thank you.
Counselor：You look, you've got my mobile number. If you've got any concerns tonight or any other time, you know, that would be great.
Client：Yeah. Thanks. So much, Mary.
Counselor：It's okay.
Client：All right. Okay. Thanks a lot.
Counselor：You take care.
Client：Thanks. Bye.