Counselor：Hi, Hazel. How you doing today?
Client：I'm okay.
Counselor：You okay?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：I know when we met last time for your intake, you were concerned about some presentations that you had to give at school.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：You want to talk about that today?
Client：Yeah. So in school. I am in school for teaching, and we have to give presentations a lot, as you can imagine, on different things. And so it's something that's recurring. And what happened was I gave a really bad one one time. Yeah. I wasn't feeling very well, and I gave. I think I was just supposed tired from studying all night, and I gave a really bad presentation. And then, like, now, ever since, like, when I've tried to give subsequent presentations, I am just so nervous and I'm up there, like, sweating and, like, starting to forget what I'm gonna say. And I'm just, like, a fear of getting up there and having to get a presentation because I feel like I'm gonna bomb it.
Counselor：All right, so was there a time before, like, recently, when you had to give presentations?
Client：Yeah, I mean, like, before, earlier in my. Like, I'm towards the end of my degree, so, you know, throughout my program, I have. I have.
Counselor：And how did you do with those?
Client：Pretty well. I mean, I consider myself a pretty good student. So normally I do pretty well, it seemed, you know, come out of nowhere.
Counselor：So this presentation that you gave with the. Where you received a poor score, maybe just an isolated incident?
Client：Yeah. Like I was saying, I wasn't. I wasn't feeling very well, I don't think. And it really hasn't happened.
Counselor：But that experience has still led to a lot of anxiety with subsequent presentations.
Client：Oh, yeah. Like, I'm worried about my grades suffering as a result, and, you know, how well I'm going to do.
Counselor：All right, so would it be okay if we kind of step through the whole process of you giving a presentation? Sure. Right before I start with that, is this something that leads to anxiety, like, right now or other times or really just in that moment when you're presenting?
Client：Mostly it's most intense in that moment. And, like, maybe, like, leading up to it, like, in preparation that I know that this is gonna happen. Like, I always know when I'm gonna present. Like, it'll be like, the teacher will say, oh, well, you know, you're this Thursday, someone else is next Thursday. So the closer it gets to that event, the more anxious I am. Like, in anticipation.
Counselor：Okay, so you start feeling anxiety a few days before presentation.
Client：Yeah, I would say a few days, mostly.
Counselor：When does it start to get really distressing for you?
Client：Like, two days before or one day before? Then I'm like, oh, my gosh, like, am I ready? Like, what if I mess up? You know, what if I get a bad grade? All these, like, what ifs.
Counselor：Okay, so would you be okay if we step into this process and kind of break down the steps of the presentation? Yeah. All right, so let's say that you're taking. What's one of the classes you're taking now?
Client：Early childhood.
Counselor：Early childhood. So let's say you have a presentation in that class a few days from now. Just a normal presentation. So let's now move to two days out, where you would start to feel a little anxiety about it.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：What's going through your mind at that two day out point?
Client：I would say, like, am I prepared enough? Like, did I do enough, you know, to study or to write down, did I do enough?
Counselor：All right, so your thought is, did I do enough preparation?
Client：Yeah. Which leads to maybe I did it is what I'm really thinking. Like, I'm not prepared enough as I should be.
Counselor：Okay. I'm not prepared. I'm not prepared enough.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：All right, so that's the thought you're having about 48 hours before the presentation. I'm not prepared enough.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And kind of thinking about that thought and what happens afterward. Do you have a reaction? Like, any type of emotional. Affective. Affective reaction to that?
Client：So, at that point, I'm usually, like, more, like, anxious, maybe, like, irritable a little bit, mostly.
Counselor：And that goes substantially unchanged. That feeling for how long?
Client：Like, the day before it kind of gets more intense when I'm, like, nitpicking. Like, well, I forgot this or I didn't forget this. And, you know, remembering what happened last time when I didn't do so well and worrying about my grade. Like, more thoughts pop in my head of things that I forgot or what if sort of things.
Counselor：All right, so the same type of thought. Just more intense. More intense. And the feeling is also more intense.
Client：Yes.