Counselor：Hello, Carlos. It's great to see you.
Client：Hey, Sara.
Counselor：So how are you doing today? Carlos, can you tell me on a scale from one, one being the worst day of your life and ten being the best day of your life, how are you doing?
Client：Yes. Three, four. Three and a half.
Counselor：If I'm remembering correctly, that's a little bit lower than last week. So I'm wondering what's been going on making your week three and a half or four?
Client：It's, you know, it's just been really busy. And I have. I had a lot of homework this week, which really just took up my time, and my dad's been on me, and so I talked to him.
Counselor：So I'm hearing that you've been really busy this week. You've had a lot of homework and that things with your dad. So things have been challenging with your father, and you haven't been getting out of. And you've been busy with school. Have you been busy with other things other than school?
Client：No, that's pretty much been my home.
Counselor：And I'm wondering how this week has compared with last week.
Client：Yeah. I mean, just more work. And I had a big project this.
Counselor：Now, you mentioned that things have been challenging with your father, and that's a theme that's come up in our last few sessions. And I'm just wondering if you can tell me a little bit more about what went on with you and your father this last week.
Client：Well, he called to ask, I mean, just to check in. And, you know, it's the. Is getting ready to decide what my major is. And, of course, so he still wants me to do biocam so I can be pre med. And just looking at this project this week, there's so much work. I'm not. Just not feeling sure that I want to get through there.
Counselor：So you have some uncertainty around what you want to do with your majority. I'm wondering, what are your thoughts when you're talking to your father? About that.
Client：I think that I'm worried about that I won't be able to do it and disappointed or worried about disappointing myself.
Counselor：And your thoughts are about disappointment.
Client：Yeah. And dread?
Counselor：That dread is appealing. Not a thought.
Client：So. Yeah. So thoughts about disappointment. Thoughts about the. About, like, the challenge, graduating.
Counselor：So you're thinking about all of the work that you might have to do in the future if you do elect to go to med school.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And when you mentioned that you think about being a failure in your father's eyes, what are your feelings when you're having that thought?
Client：Well, I. Sadness that maybe I'm not having or not going to have a good relationship with my father. Yeah. Dread, like I said, or fear about how things might turn out or what they might require. If I have to do. If I do go to med school, like, how much work that is, then I'm like, a little. I'm a little wary of that.
Counselor：And I'm wondering what's changed this week compared to last week in regards to your thinking about this issue.
Client：Well, some of it is just that I've been thinking more about it because you called. And then also as this deadline approaches, I was thinking about the deadline for declaring my major as I'm taking this chemistry class, and since it's hard, then it's making me think twice about the mood, about the.
Counselor：Okay, well, it definitely sounds like this has been something that's been on your mind. Really? These thoughts you've been having impacted the way you're feeling. And you also mentioned that you've been a shut in. Yeah. I'm wondering if mystery is my master. So you not doing the things you enjoy may also be impacting how you feel. Do you think that that's possible?
Client：Yeah, I mean, I think it's. I'm sure, you know, it sucks.
Counselor：Yeah. So, for the last few weeks, we've been working a little bit on restructuring the way you are thinking. That's with the goal of that making you feel different, and that's what we'll continue to do. And I'm thinking that just from what I'm hearing, it might be a good idea to add the relationship with your father and feeling like you're a failure in size to the agenda. Something we might want to work on.
Client：Yeah. Spend enough time thinking about it.
Counselor：Sure, sure. And then we'll do a little bit more agenda setting, actually. Next. So I'm wondering, what problems are you most interested in working on in this session today?
Client：Yeah, I mean, I'm definitely. You know, the thing with my dad is, like, a big thing. So I was hoping that this therapy, these sessions, might make some headway with that.
Counselor：Absolutely. I know that he's that relationship, something that we have been talking about in session, so I think it would be a good idea to include that today also. So, as we've been doing, I think it's a good idea that we both write that down. You have a list in your notebook. And then I also have a list of what we talked about. Okay. So I'm wondering, is there anything else you mentioned some other things that may have impacted your mood this last week?
Client：Well, I've been thinking about. I mean, like I said, I've been thinking about the deadline to declare my major, and.
Counselor：I.
Client：So it's kind of an involved process to.
Counselor：Okay, so maybe. I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I'm wondering if maybe you could just write that down as approaching deadline for your major.
Client：Yeah. Yeah, basically.
Counselor：Is that a fair way to sum that up? Is there anything else that you want to work on together today?
Client：Well, I would like to get, you know, like, I had miss band practice last week because I just had so much work, and I feel like the answer is probably, you know, don't take this chemistry class. But I guess I would love to be better about making a band practice.
Counselor：The band practice is something that's important to you, and you're not. You haven't been able to do it as regularly as you'd like.
Client：You want to talk about.
Counselor：I think I'll write that down as well. We can just write down finding time for. Fantastic. Does that sound good, or do you think. All right, is there anything else you'd like to add to our agenda today.
Client：That seems to full.
Counselor：Well, if you think of anything else as we move forward, you can definitely add it. And we'll also do a little bit of work, prioritize what we talk about after we go over your homework. I noticed that you brought your folder, and I'm wondering if you had time to look through the cognitive distortion work.
Client：Hey, this thing.
Counselor：That's the one. And I think what we had talked about. I'm looking at notes from last week right now. We talked about you reading through it each morning and then two or three times throughout the week, identifying the cognitive distortion that would apply to something you're experiencing. So, can you tell me how many times you think you were able to read that in? One.
Client：Well, I. I mean, in the morning, a couple of times. And a couple times I read it, I guess.
Counselor：No, that's absolutely fine. So how many times, if you were to count them up, any time of day, were you able to read through that? Five. Okay. So you read it the majority of the days. And do you have the worksheet where you wrote down examples of the time and distortions?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And how was that for you?
Client：Well, I mean, it was. It was fine, you know, I mean.
Counselor：It'S like, well, why don't we just start by going through the kinds of distortions that you identified. Okay. You can start from the top, and if you just want to read what you wrote, then you can discuss it.
Client：All right. Well, I get after the call with my dad, and I wrote coming to conclusions because he's asking me about my major. He said he didn't actually say med school or anything about med school. He just said, did you pick something that's, like, productive? And, you know, I totally heard med school, because every time we talk about it, that's what I hear about. But I didn't actually say that. So I realized maybe that was.
Counselor：What conclusion were you jumping to?
Client：That he was that by that he meant only, you know, by a pan.
Counselor：So I'm saying something productive. You interpreted that is being those two options, right?
Client：I mean, yeah.
Counselor：Okay. And when you thought about what he actually said, you didn't hear any evidence for that?
Client：Well, I mean, I heard some evidence for it, but I realized he could have meant something else. He could have meant. Could have meant communications or business administration or engineering or, I mean, anything else. English.
Counselor：So there might be some more options for you. Okay. So did you write down any other examples?
Client：Well, I mean, I think related to that with the mental filter, because, like, I realized we didn't actually have a bad conversation. Nice. And.
Counselor：When you say it was nice, what. What about it?
Client：Well, I mean, like, we didn't get into any of the fights that we have in some past, and so he was clearly trying to be nice about it when I think about it. But coming off that call, all I was getting was just this anxiety about the majority discussion. But, you know, reading through this, I thought, like, maybe that wasn't. I mean, that that was one piece of it, but there was also. The whole thing wasn't.
Counselor：So it kind of made you think a little bit more about the thoughts that were going through your mind. Okay, well, I'm wondering if this exercise was useful enough for you that you might want to continue it into next week.
Client：Yeah, sure.
Counselor：And I know that you identified a couple of instances. I'm wondering if you might be able to identify a couple more or in afternoon like you did last week, and then also maybe identify a couple more. Would that be something that might work for you?
Client：Yeah, I mean, my project is due on Friday, so.
Counselor：Okay. So you might have a little bit more time. Okay, wonderful. Well, I think that now we can move on to the next part of our work together and with a little bit more items that we identify, and then we'll assign a couple of other ideas for homework.