Counselor：Okay. So if we were to look at this, then not getting along with your brother, not as close as he used to be, is kind of causing this just sadness and confusion. And then one of these beliefs is, well, I just can't confront him or I can't straighten these things out of on my own and so forth.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Is that.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：And I feel like I can't get involved in this situation. Like, it won't. It wouldn't do any good even if I tried to.
Counselor：So that's okay. So there's a bit of. A. Bit of a powerlessness there, too, as well. Even if I try, it's not going to work. So that's part of that belief. The belief as well. Like, I can do it, but. Okay. Okay. Do you mind if I write a few notes down on that? Okay. So we got the a is a brother. I know this will seem monotonous, so just tell me if you're getting bored. But the belief is, hey, this could be. Well, it's frustrating. I feel powerless. I can't confront or be assertive. And then this leads to the sadness now apart that sadness. Let me ask you something, though. On a scale of one to 1010 being the worst, we'll just do it that way. The scaling is ten being the worst sadness or depression you felt and zero being. Feeling pretty good. Where would you rate this?
Client：Maybe like a five.
Counselor：Okay. So kind of right there in the middle, your experience of sadness and so forth. And I realize we may have been better to do that scale the opposite way, but you know where we're going. So in a four out of five, it doesn't matter. The d. So part of the model here with Rabt is to dispute and to look at what you could tell yourself to feel a little less bad, a little less sad. And I'm curious as to what might.
Client：Help, as to what I could tell myself. I guess that's not really my fault. Like, it's two of us, so he could contact me, too.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：And that maybe I shouldn't take it all on myself, too, to where I feel so powerless and just.
Counselor：Excuse me, okay. There's two people involved, and he could be contacting you. And then the other thing is, hey, maybe I'm taking too much on myself here. I'm curious. Is this a trend in your life? Is this something that you've seen before, just kind of taking it all on of other people?
Client：Maybe. I don't know.
Counselor：Okay, well, I got a sense that it wasn't. I mean, since you gave me kind of a navy. It's like, I do a pretty good job of maintaining that.
Client：I think with him, it's like a continual cycle, kind of. So maybe in this situation I like, since I'm so close to it, I feel it more than.
Counselor：Yeah, yeah. I mean, this is a close person, you know, this isn't a friendship or something like that. It's a brother you were raised with. Absolutely. Well, you've said a couple things here for disputing. One is that, hey, I'm taking too much on. And then I also. I wanted to pick up also and kind of just on the cycle and the cycle of relationships and that we do tend to kind of go through a little bit of a roller coaster with some folks and, you know, with some folks, it's a little less hilly, but sometimes we feel closer to people at certain times in our life than others. There's a developmental aspect, I think. What else am I missing here? If we're disputing, you say, hey, I'm taking too much on. Oh, he's also. He's.
Client：Yeah, he could.
Counselor：He's responsible, too. Okay. So you kind of come up with that kind of stuff, and I'm curious how that works for you. The disputing part.
Client：I guess just thinking about it from that point of view, it makes it easier to handle. I don't know, it makes me feel, like, a little bit better, I guess, about myself.
Counselor：Okay. Okay. So kind of keeping those thoughts in mind that I'm taking too much on here. He can make a phone call. He can help us straighten this out. Kind of the general cycle of relationships. Keeping that stuff in mind helps you feel less sad.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：On that scale again, where would you put yourself if you can keep that in your mind?
Client：Maybe like a three. So, like a little bit better. Like, I think I'd still be sad that we don't have as close a relationship right now.
Counselor：Yeah. Yeah. So you can feel that. But then there's. I guess what I'm sensing is there's less personal responsibility for it. So it's. So it sounds like that helps. Yeah. And helps a little bit. Yeah. And I guess the trick is what you do to kind of maintain those thoughts because it's real easy to get back into the habit of, oh, God, it used to be.
Client：Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think it is really easy to fall back into those old thought processes. So I guess just, I don't know, reminding myself that, like, maybe comparing to other relationships and. Okay, remember how you're talking about, like, the cycle.
Counselor：Cycle. Okay. So kind of expanding and thinking about other relationships you have and even thinking.
Client：About, like, our relationship and how it's changed over the years.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：So remembering other times when we were further apart and then, like, whenever he comes back and we're closer again.
Counselor：Okay. Okay. So even looking back into your life, there's been some kind of cycles, as there typically are with siblings in particular. So keeping that in mind, I see you've got something on your wrist. What I was looking at is there something in particular that can really serve as a concrete reminder? One thing that can help is you've got. You wear a watch on your left wrist is possibly changing it to your right. And every time you feel really weird, and every time you go look at your left arm for the time, and then. But let that serve as a reminder. Oh, yeah. This is my reminder to come back to, hey, I'm taking too much on. There's a cycle to relationships. He's responsible. Would this be something you're willing to try?
Client：Yeah, I could try it.
Counselor：You're not seeming like you really want to, but. Okay, let's try that for a sec. Just show me you can do it. Will it even fit on your right hand?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. Because you could use that band as well.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：That probably. This is really going to feel weird, but the cool thing about this is, is that when it feels weird, it's probably even more of a reminder. Yeah. So what I'd encourage you is just for the day, if you can have to get it resized to do it.
Client：No, I just. I just got this watch, and it's really. The other one's easier to put on.
Counselor：Yeah, this one's a pain, aren't they? Well, you know what the deal is. And if it works better to use that band or something, that's a real concrete reminder to come back to these kind of problems.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：Oh, I got it.
Counselor：Hey. All right. Okay. So between now and the next time we meet, I'd like for you to continue to do that and then let me know how it goes in terms of kind of your feelings related to this.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Okay. So tell me how this process went.
Client：It went good. Yeah. It was a little bit difficult, I think, thinking about, like, feelings that I.
Counselor：Listen in, difficult in that it was. It's hard to talk about or just.
Client：Or it's just hard to define, like, how it makes you feel.
Counselor：Okay. Yeah. What comes up in between now and the next time we meet, if you get more clarity and if journaling helps or what have you, let me know. Because that can be something we kind of talk about, okay?