Counselor：Hi, Leigh. How you doing today?
Client：I'm good.
Counselor：You're doing good?
Client：Yeah. Okay. I guess you guessed. Yeah. Um. Well, I guess I'll tell you, but I, I'm kind of embarrassed to tell you, but, so, like, I'm in college, and all my friends are dating, and I'm just really, like, nervous to just tell you, but, like, I really haven't dated before, and I'm really nervous and scared to date, and I just I just don't know how to do it, and I don't know. I'm just nervous.
Counselor：So, nervousness and some anxiety around dating. You said you'd never really dated before.
Client：No, not really. I mean, I just was never, you know, that was never enforced in my family. I was never allowed to really do that. So just the thought of it is, like, like, scary, scary for you? Yeah. So, you know, I mean, I tend to talk to guys, but it was just like, like, you know, real short and bye, like hi bye kind of thing. Because, like I said, that just was never enforced in my family. And just never, I was never, that's never applaud. That was never applauded in when I was growing up, so I never did it, and I was scared to do it for the repercussions, getting in trouble. So.
Counselor：All right, so no dating in high school. And what type of interactions did you have in high school? You said, you said hi a few times.
Client：Yeah, just like in my science class, you know, particularly this one time, I actually sat next to this boy who was super cute, but, you know, we would say hi, and that was it. He would try to ask me stuff about classwork or the assignment, and I would not even look at him and just tell him and look at my schoolwork. And that was the extent of it, you know?
Counselor：So let's talk about your anxiety. You have anxiety and earlier, like, reaction just to thinking about it. Right. You think about dating. It's just, it's a lot for you. Do you think this anxiety comes from a fear of what might happen, or is this something more how you'll be perceived? Like, what do you think is leading to?
Client：I think it's a little bit of both. I definitely always compare myself to my sisters, and they're super pretty, and I just don't feel attractive enough to have somebody be interested in me. And if they were to be interested in me, I'm not allowed to date, you know, so the repercussion would just be, you know, I'd kind of be shunned for doing so. So it kind of just stayed with me, you know, now I'm 24 and I'm in school, and it's just so overwhelming. And I'm kind of envious of my girlfriends because they're able to do it, and I'm like, damn. Like, how did they do that? So.
Counselor：So that process is far from removed from you. You look at that and think, I don't even know how to approach it.
Client：It's like a foreign object. Like, yeah.
Counselor：So how would you say, how would you describe yourself? Like, how do you feel about yourself?
Client：I always do the right thing. I'm really studious, and I like to have fun. When I'm with my girlfriends, we have a great time, and I'm personable with them and my family, but it's just when it comes to interacting with male, it's just super difficult for me. And I can tell you why, but I can't tell you why. You know, it's kind of that, like, it's like a seesaw every time I'm with a male, you know, in a dating aspect anyway, so it's just difficult for me.
Counselor：Is there a particular outcome that you're afraid of? Like, when you're, well, you're in college now, right? So likely interact with males to some extent. Is there when an opportunity comes up when somebody's interested in you? Is there a particular fear that comes to mind?
Client：Yeah, like, I don't even know why you're talking to me. Like, why would you talk to me? I'm not pretty. I'm flipping awkward. Like, you know, why would you even be interested?
Counselor：So you think yourself as unattractive and awkward?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And you question why they would be interested in you?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So have you ever had evidence presented to the contrary, like, people who thought you were attractive and not awkward?
Client：Um, well, yeah, I mean, yeah, like, people have told me that I'm pretty and, um, you know, fun and stuff like that, so, yeah, I have.
Counselor：Yeah. But there's some, so they're telling you that? But there's something else telling you that you're not?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：What do you think that's coming from?
Client：I guess just from my, you know, my mom and I think just her rules that I guess I just associated, you know, me not being able to date, that I wasn't presentable enough to date. And I just got this idea that that's the reason why she just didn't want me to date.
Counselor：So you think her reasoning for not allowing you to date, I wasn't the pretty daughter? Were your sisters allowed to date?
Client：They were allowed to date, but under certain circumstances, certain rules they had to follow. But just when I would, you know, even suggest it to my mom, it was just like, no, you're not.
Counselor：So you feel like you were, of you and your sisters, you were the one treated the most strictly on that. But was it much more strictly or just a little differently?
Client：I think it was much more strictly, yeah. Because it's so much so now that I can't even talk to a guy. It's just. I mean, the anxiety and the fear is so intense. I just can't explain it. It's horrible that it's not like that for my sisters because now they're married, you know, so they have kids, and it's like, what the heck happened here? And I can recognize it, but I just can't bring myself to do it, like talk to somebody or, you know.
Counselor：So the way you perceive yourself, the self image here is part of this?
Client：Yeah. Yeah, absolutely.
Counselor：So you have evidence that says that men would be interested in going out with you, dating you, but internally, these thoughts you're having say you're just not worthy.
Client：You know what I mean?
Counselor：That's kind of the theme of it, right?
Client：Yeah, absolutely. That's it.
Counselor：And maybe this is tied to a core belief. Like we talked about core beliefs before cognitive therapy. Are there any of those core beliefs in the list I gave you a few weeks ago kind of stood out that you think might be core beliefs you have?
Client：That I'm unlovable.
Counselor：Unlovable, yeah. Any others?
Client：Fear of rejection.
Counselor：So fear of being rejected?
Client：Fear of being rejected. Yeah.
Counselor：So unlovable. And a fear of being rejected. And then when you have interactions in the moment, like, say you're in class and there's a man sitting next to you in class, and they're interested in you, he's interested in you. He says something that expresses that he's interested. You're immediately suspect.
Client：Oh, yeah.
Counselor：That's what you're.
Client：Oh, yeah. That's like. It's like, what is it? Fight or flight kind of feeling like it really is. It's like, oh, you know. Yeah. Just something comes over me where, you know, it's kind of like I'm conditioned because I don't even live with my mom and my dad now, and I'm on my own, but yet I still hold their values. And not just. All I can just think of is being in high school and having. Being told I can't do that or just the rules and having to follow it. And that's really where I feel like I'm there. If someone says something to me, it.
Counselor：Takes you right back there.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：All right. I. So how do your parents feel about now? Have they said anything like, your sisters are married and you're not? Have they pointed that out?
Client：No, they haven't. Not really. No. Because my mom really wants me. She. I guess. Well, maybe it has to do with that. Like, I'm smarter than my sisters, so she really wants me to be a doctor. And my sisters, they have, you know, they have great jobs, but, you know, they just stopped at a bachelor's degree, and I'm really working to be a doctor. And I always had straight a's in high school and my sisters didn't. So I think that my mom wants to hold on to that, you know, that hope that I'm going to be something great. So she doesn't really enforce the dating thing with me. I guess she's for fear that that's going to get in the way.
Counselor：That's different than being unlovable, right? Yeah. I mean, her reasoning, as you're describing her reasoning sounds more like she wants you to reach a higher educational goal.
Client：I mean, I guess. Yeah.
Counselor：What do you want?
Client：I want to be in a relationship with somebody because all of my friends are, and I'm always that. They're real and it's difficult. I mean, yeah, I want the education. Don't get me wrong, I want a great job, but I don't want to do that alone. I want to have somebody with me that I can confide in and just a confidante. And the time is now. I'm ready, you know? And maybe my mom was just protecting me, I guess. I don't know what she was doing, but I really don't care because I really want to try it. I just don't know how.
Counselor：There's opposing forces at work here, right? I mean, you're motivated to try it like it's a goal. You want to be able to date, you want to go out. It's important to you. Do you want to get married like your sisters?
Client：Yeah, I do.
Counselor：You do? So you have these clear goals, and that's one force. And then the supposing force is this. Well, one of them would be this anxiety that comes over you in the moment when a man's talking to you. Like in that way. Right. Like about going out or any topic like that. So a part of you. A part of you is saying, I really want to move forward and date different people and see if I can find a good match. And another part of you is saying I need to run away. Like you said, fight or flight, right? I want to run away and not have this awkwardness, this anxiety.
Client：Yeah. Yeah. Because it's a. I just keep thinking of the repercussions, like now as an adult, that my mom's just. I guess that she wouldn't talk to me. But I'm not in high school anymore, so I don't know. I just. I honestly don't know what the conversation would be like if I talked to a guy that I was interested in or if a guy was interested in me. I mean, because I came to the realization, and my friends have helped me with this, that I am in college, I am an adult now. And, you know, what my mom thinks is what she thinks now. It's just me peeing in front of a male that I'm attracted to, that I want to go out with.
Counselor：And what you said is you don't know what would happen, so you don't know that it would be bad. You don't know that it would be a bad experience.
Client：Right? I don't know. I don't know if it's going to be bad, but you don't know if.
Counselor：It'S going to be good either.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So there's a risk.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So in the situation you're in, if you can get through that anxiety and have a conversation, it could end up where things went very well or didn't. So what happens if it doesn't go well?
Client：Well, I mean, like I said, I think because my mom didn't let me date that it was sign that I was unattractive, so I could take it that way, that I was just unattractive, but that he wouldn't have initiated the date if I was unattractive.
Counselor：Good point.
Client：So for that, I was. It just didn't work. You know, there just wasn't anything in common with what I'm about. You know, that I have different hobbies and he has different hobbies, and maybe they just don't mesh well and I have to. That could be a reason why it didn't work. Not that I'm. I guess, nothing. I'm lovable. You know, I shouldn't take it that personal, but it's hard.
Counselor：It's difficult for you. This is painful for you.
Client：Yeah, it is.
Counselor：You're fighting through some strong feelings. If you try to look at the logical, right. If it's likely you just because of the way it works, you'd have to date several people to find somebody that was a match.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So some of those relationships you'll end, maybe some of the man will end, but eventually, one likely you would stumble on, or neither one of you would end it. So there's risk involved here. There's a risk of rejection. There's a risk of having to reject. That doesn't seem to be the risk you're most worried about, though. You're more worried about the risk of being rejected.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. Because you're questioning their intent.
Client：Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Counselor：So can you survive being rejected?
Client：I think. I think I can, you know. Yeah. I mean, because in essence, I was, you know, rejected by my mom, but I still moved forward with my life because since she didn't let me date, that's a rejection from her that I'm not worthy. So, yes, I think because my friends have helped me, so that's a step in the right direction.
Counselor：And you took that behavior from your mother as rejection. And it seems like that may not have been her reason for doing that. You don't know for sure.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：But even if it was, which it seems unlikely it would have been, that's still just one person.
Client：Yeah, yeah. That is just one person.
Counselor：So if we just take it to the extreme and say for some reason.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：You know, she didn't think you were worthy. That's just one person opinion.
Client：Yeah, absolutely. Right. Because my friends think I'm worthy. Right.
Counselor：And their opinions are valid too.
Client：Right? They are.
Counselor：So if you really look at it and weigh the evidence and look at it logically, the imbalance of the evidence would say that you are worthy.
Client：Right.
Counselor：You're not unlovable. But still, in any type of relational situation, there's going to be rejection. So there's potential pain up ahead, but the reward could be you find somebody that you want to be with. And that's really your goal.
Client：Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：So really part of this is pushing through a good deal of uncomfortableness, discomfort, right?
Client：Yeah, yeah, absolutely. A lot of that. A lot of it, yeah, yeah. And I think that I'm willing. I'm willing to do it because I want it so bad that, you know, I have to. You don't know until you try it, and I have to try it. I have to.
Counselor：So what, kind of a behavioral experiment. Right. So let's. Let's take it one step at a time. Let's say that back to the situation I alluded to earlier. You're in class and there's somebody that's interested in you, sitting next to you or whoever they are, and they come and initiate a conversation. What's your reaction now? What do you do now?
Client：Well, I would introduce myself because I never. I have never done that before to a guy where I introduce myself. I wouldn't even make eye contact. So I think to just look up with them and just say, you know, hi, my name is, you know, Leia, and just see what that feels like because I don't know what to do.
Counselor：You've never reached that step?
Client：No. No, I haven't, because I wouldn't even, you know, I wouldn't even look them in the eye.
Counselor：Your current reaction is not look them in the eye. Not engaging in discussion.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Just kind of shy away. So the. So the behavioral experiment is to nothing, do that, but instead proactively engage in another behavior, which would be to introduce yourself. So let's just make that the experiment. You seem like you're pretty comfortable and you have some confidence you could do that.
Client：Right.
Counselor：And that's not a particularly long amount of time. You just have to get through that introduction. And the worst that they could do if you introduce yourself, I mean, I guess they could reject you at that point, but that seems pretty unlikely. I mean, you're just introducing yourself.
Client：Right. Right. I mean, I guess that would be really shallow if they did that. So.
Counselor：Yeah. That's not a great indicator that there would be a suitable mate. Right.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So you introduce yourself and you're open. I guess the second part would be you're open to whatever conversation comes next.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So you're not committing to anything. Right. You're not committing to an engaged, long engaged social interaction. You're just saying, here's my name, what's your name? Or whatever, and just see where the conversation goes. So this is really all new?
Client：Oh, yeah, it's all new. And it's like. It's embarrassing, but I feel. I feel, like, safe with you, so I feel okay that I'm able to talk about it. And, like, my friends know, you know, like, 24 and never really introducing yourself to a guy is. It's embarrassing. It's embarrassing. Yeah.
Counselor：So not doing. That's embarrassing.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So by doing that, you can overcome that embarrassment, but you'll have some anxiety.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So there's a trade off.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So my guess is the more you introduce yourself, the less that anxiety will be.
Client：Yeah, I think so. Absolutely. Yeah.
Counselor：So let's just start with that.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Right. Let's start with that. And when's the next time you'll be in a class?
Client：Actually, next week.
Counselor：Okay, next week. So you'll have the opportunity in that class to introduce yourself to who's there.
Client：Yeah. And I'm always early.
Counselor：You're always early.
Client：Always early. Because, you know, I have to make sure that I'm getting grades, but, yeah, I'm always up.
Counselor：It's good to be early.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So you're always early. And this way, you know, people come in.
Client：Right.
Counselor：One at a time, whatever. And you can introduce yourself.
Client：Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：And that's really for this first experiment. That and just being open to whatever conversation comes next.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Just talking.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So try not to borrow any worry into the future, past that. Okay. Like, in terms of will they like me? What will they think of me? Where will this go? Just focus on the introduction and the conversation and just try to enjoy that. I know there's some anxiety with it, certainly a lot, but try to enjoy that experience and try to look at it as a victory. It's an important step for you to overcome this initial contact fear. So if you can get through that, the possibilities are wide open.
Client：Yeah, absolutely. Because it would be a victory. Kind of like peeling off layers from my adolescent. Yeah, I guess would be.
Counselor：All right, so as you're doing this behavioral experiment, I want you to keep track of some cognitive things if possible. If you don't, we'll work on it later, but I want you to try to be aware of what you're thinking through the process.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Again, if you're not, that's okay. You might be focused on thinking about what they're saying, and that's good.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：But if you can recollect anything after the fact, like, well, you know, I was thinking that he might not want to talk to me, and he did. Or you're thinking, again, like, thoughts of not being lovable, thoughts of unlovability. Keep track of those thoughts. That's secondary to the behavior. Introduce yourself and have the conversation if one happens. But if you can also maybe note some of those thoughts, the best time is right after, like, the conversation's over. Just quickly write them down, like, kind of what happened and what you're thinking and to it to extend, you know, to some extent, what you were feeling, if you remember that.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：And I think it would be good for us to kind of track that as you work to overcome this. This first obstacle. Okay, that sounds good.
Client：Yeah, it does. I'm anxious, but. But it's a positive anxious now, I think.
Counselor：So you're looking forward to it in a way?
Client：I am, yeah. Cause I want it so bad.
Counselor：So you start school next week?
Client：I do.
Counselor：And so I'll see you in a week, and we'll go over kind of what happened from that first day of school. If there's no opportunity to. There's not much to talk about. There was really not many people to talk to. That's fine. I mean, we'll have opportunities later. But try to introduce yourself to those that you see, whether you have an interest in them or not, just to get comfortable with introducing yourself. So have something to discuss and build upon as you move into your second week school.
Client：Okay? Yeah, definitely. Okay.
Counselor：So I'll see you in a week, and we'll go from there.
Client：Okay, perfect.
Counselor：Thank you.
Client：Thank you.