Counselor：So, hello, Michael. Welcome back.
Client：Thank you. Hi.
Counselor：So, for this session, I'm just going to briefly discuss what we went over in our last session, including the goals that we set for you, and then we can kind of discuss how those went for you. Does that sound good?
Client：Okay,
Counselor：so what we discussed in the last session is we went over what your diet and lifestyle are like, and we discussed those goals for you, with your overall goal being to become more plant based and just healthier. And the specific goals that we set for this week were to swap out your usual breakfast of yogurt with nuts and berries for a plant based smoothie five out of seven days this week. And your second goal was to track your food intake using myfitnesspal every day this week with the goal of keeping your sugar intake to under 50 grams per day. So, starting with that first goal of swapping out your breakfast five out of seven days this week for a plant based smoothie. How did that go?
Client：I would say I had moderate success in that I had smoothies three out of, so far, six days of this week. I started the week on Sunday and now it's Friday. So a couple things that got in the way of reaching the goal. One is that I basically forgot the goal. It wasn't in the forefront of my mind. I was more focused on making smoothies for mom and not making sure I had them. And then secondly, I'm out of town from this morning until tomorrow afternoon. And so I essentially lost like a day or two mornings where I would normally be at home and be able to make a smoothie for myself. So I can try to make up for one of the smoothies tomorrow when I get home, but really need to make it more of a habit and have it in a forefront of my mind.
Counselor：So you talk a lot. You mentioned a few times that making that in the forefront of your mind. And the first thing you said was that the reason you didn't complete the goal was that you just forgot about it. So would it be alright with you if we maybe discussed some ways to increase your memory of the goal?
Client：Sure.
Counselor：All right. So what do you think you could do to remember to make this goal happen, to get up to those five smoothies?
Client：Well, a couple things. One is I have a daily, I have an app on my computer that I used to put down task items into the to do list, basically, and I review that every day. So, you know, if I have a separate diet related category for my to Dos, I could enter it there and have it there. I could put a reminder on my fridge and then also doing the meal tracking that I was doing with my fitness pal would of course make it evident that I'm not doing it. But that was a lot of work this week. I would not want to put in that much work. And then finally, I think once it gets going so it's on automatic, you're making a habit, then that in and of itself reminds me.
Counselor：So you mentioned some really good ideas. So you talked about you have this reminder app on your computer. I think that that's a great way. If it's something that you're already checking every day, then you should definitely consider adding in this reminder to make the smoothies there. And you also mentioned putting a reminder on your fridge. So insofar as continuing with this goal, if we were to rewrite it, what would you say?
Client：You mean like perhaps including items to help you reach the goal?
Counselor：Yes.
Client：And then sub to do items? In a sense, yeah. So I think that would be helpful. Listing specific actions which I'm going to take to try to help me reach this other action I'm trying to do. That would be helpful. And I think what we've talked about using my to do app is probably the best because since I go back and forth between two places during the week, I have to maintain, you know, a list of each place on the fridge. I don't necessarily pay attention to that every day. I think because I'm using my computer every day and I use this to do that every day. That's a natural place to start.
Counselor：Okay, so I'm just going to write it down so I can send it to you in an email what our modified version of the smooth equal will be. So what you were saying was would you like to maintain the five out of seven days or would you like to increase it or decrease it?
Client：I would like to. I think it should be at least five and maybe even seven out of seven. Let's start with five, though for now, I always prefer to start small and not confuse things too much. So many things to remember. So two and five out of seven. And also because using myfitnesspal this week, it became evident that I'm not getting enough protein, at least according to what my fitness panel thinks I should be getting. So the smoothies are a good way to add protein to my diet.
Counselor：Okay, so then perhaps we can structure the goal of saying that. So five out of seven days in the next week, you will make a plant based smoothie with. How would you be adding the protein?
Client：Protein powder, most likely.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：And, you know, there'd be some soy milk or plant based milk, which you have some protein in, but most of it's going to come from protein powder.
Counselor：So making the smoothie five out of seven days for the next week with the plant based protein powder and or a serving of a high protein plant based milk. And you would be doing that by setting the reminder for yourself within your computer app and writing a reminder on the fridge. How does that sound?
Client：Sounds good.
Counselor：Okay. So thinking in terms of confidence, on a scale of one to ten, with one being very low confidence, don't think that you can do it. And ten being absolutely, this goal is going to be no problem, where would you say that you stand?
Client：So one was what again?
Counselor：So one being very low confidence and ten being you can absolutely do this, no problem.
Client：I would say, like nine to ten.
Counselor：That's great.
Client：I don't say ten because what I also need to work on is getting some interesting smoothie recipes. So I'm not making the same one every day or same couple and then making sure I have the ingredients on hand.
Counselor：Would you find it helpful if maybe I sent you some suggestions for smoothie recipes?
Client：Yeah, very.
Counselor：Okay. I can definitely do that. All right. And then for your second goal, we talked about tracking your food intake, which I know you already mentioned that that's not something that you want to continue. Did I hear that correctly?
Client：Yeah, not. Certainly not long term. Maybe just solve specific issues or just kind of get a snapshot of how I'm doing. So maybe, you know, like six months from now we do it again. But that's something I would like to do day after day.
Counselor：Sure.
Client：And, you know, just in general for my fitness pal, you know, often what I'm making, the ingredients don't match what they have in their database. So I'm having to enter all the nutritional information with every ingredient, and it's very laborious.
Counselor：Okay. I know you did send me that information. And our goal with the tracking for the past week was focusing on that sugar intake. And looking over it, I can see that the highest day that you had with our limit or goal was to get you to stay under 50. And the highest day you had was 53 grams. So I do think that you're. That's. I'm not concerned about that if you're not concerned about it. And so I think at least for the next week, we can remove that as a goal and focus on the smoothies. And then, as you had mentioned, in the future, we could evaluate doing it again to kind of keep tabs on how consistent you're being.
Client：Yeah, sure.
Counselor：Yeah. Okay.
Client：So I was actually surprised at how low it came in.
Counselor：Yeah. I think when I was looking at your diet, I think overall, you're eating very clean and you're very close to being fully plant based already. So I think you're doing a great job and you're well on your way.
Client：Thank you.
Counselor：So just to kind of summarize what we did, so we discussed your goals and how they went. And while we are going to terminate the tracking myfitnesspal for now, we are going to modify the smoothie goal to, again, making five out of seven smoothies for the week and adding a serving of plant based protein powder and or a plant based milk for that extra source of protein. And to help you remember to do that, you're going to write a reminder on your fridge, and you're also going to put a reminder in your computer app that you check daily. Does all of that sound correct to you?
Client：Yep.
Counselor：All right. Well, thank you so much for doing this with me, Michael.
Client：Okay. Thank you.
Counselor：All right, bye.