Counselor：Does the feeling itself, the worry about not being prepared, interfere with preparing?
Client：Yes, it's really hard. So, like, when I'm in the middle of being worried, it's really hard for me to focus. So I can't focus on what I need to do because I feel like my mind is on a lot of different things and I can't focus on, you know, exactly what I should be doing. It's just like I'm worried about, you know, all the different aspects.
Counselor：All right, so your ability to concentrate through the hard work of preparing.
Client：Yeah. To, like, focus my energy on the right things. I'm just, like, wasting time worrying.
Counselor：All right, so this, this excessive worrying and all this interfering and preparing, all this goes on right up until you're getting ready to present.
Client：Yeah. And then, like, while I'm presenting.
Counselor：So let's talk about that. Let's go into the actual day of presenting. So we have the success of work coming in. It's interfered with your ability to prepare. It's distressing for you.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Now it's what in class presentations are in class.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So you're in the classroom. Do you, are you the only one to present during that class, or does it rotate through several people?
Client：It depends on the presentation. Sometimes there's, like, one or two other people that have to present that night, depending on, like, how long the topic is.
Counselor：All right, let's use the last time you present that classes as a tempo. What was the order? Like, what order did you go in there?
Client：The one. Well, the one that I really messed up. I think I was first, but usually I'm second, maybe.
Counselor：Okay, so for this example, let's say you do the second. Okay, so you're sitting in the classroom and another student is presenting.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：What's going through your mind then?
Client：I feel like I am totally zoned out. Like, I'm not even paying attention to what that person is saying because I'm so worried about how I'm gonna mess it up. You know, I'm. I'm starting to, like, be sweaty, like, my hands are clammy, my heart starting to race a little bit, and I'm just totally zoned out on what they're doing. I'm just, you know, worrying about what's going to happen when I get up there.
Counselor：All right, so in that moment as you're seated, you're not really watching their presentation. As much because you have these strong or somewhat strong physical symptoms. You have your heart racing a bit. You said sweaty palms. You're zoned out.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Have you ever felt the. The need, desire to run out of the room?
Client：Yes. It's funny you should say that. I was a little bit hesitant to mention that, but I kind of. I do. I feel like I need to find an excuse to, like, use the bathroom or I just need to get out of there.
Counselor：Yeah. So what do you feel is most pressuring you to leave the room? Like, what symptom?
Client：Um, I would say that just, like, my anxiety and my heart rate are starting to increase, and I feel like I just need to get out of there and what.
Counselor：What thoughts going through your mind right then?
Client：Like.
Counselor：So let's take that kind of most severe moment when you're. Let's just say we're still before the presentation.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：So you're sitting at the desk, and your heart rate's elevated, and you're not focusing on what they're doing. You're zoned out, your anxiety's high.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：What thought is going through your mind right then?
Client：I think. I'm thinking, like, I'm gonna bond this anyway, so I might as well just, you know, not go through the stress of having to do it. Like, I've already. In my head, I know that it's.
Counselor：Gonna end badly, so I've already failed.
Client：Right. So there's no sense in getting up there, and maybe if I don't get up there, you know, I guess it couldn't be any worse, so I might as well just leave.
Counselor：Are you embarrassed that the professor or other students will see that you were really anxious?
Client：Yeah, I don't want. I figure if I leave, then people won't. We'll just maybe think I was sick or whatever, and it'll be a better situation if I just left than having to see me up there, you know, sweating and all this. These other symptoms that I have when I actually get up there. It would be better just to leave before that starts.
Counselor：Okay, so. So better to be thought ill that you just had to leave because you're sick.
Client：Yeah. Or have them wonder what happened than to just be up in front of.
Counselor：Everybody, you know, to have that severe anxiety in front of everybody, and then they can see.
Client：Very embarrassing.
Counselor：Yeah. That would be. That would be a very undesirable outcome for you.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So as you're debating that thought, like, if that's coming to your head and you're thinking, I just need to.
Client：Yeah, flee. I just gotta get out of here.
Counselor：What happens there? So we're maybe, what, 15 minutes before you present? So tell me about that. So you have that thought. You want to flee, right?
Client：And I'm looking at the clock and saying, you know, like, how much more time in this presentation before I have to go? Like, should I go? Should I not go? What are the consequences of running out? You know, and kind of playing out, which would be worse?
Counselor：Have you ever had to run out?
Client：Once I went to the bathroom to try to, like, calm myself down or talk to myself or, you know, like, cool off my face, but I came.
Counselor：Back and you presented.
Client：Yeah. And then I presented.
Counselor：All right, so you. You survived one of the more stressful.
Client：Yeah. I almost felt like I was gonna be ill. I was so stressed that day.
Counselor：That was very, very tough one, yet.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：That particular day, you did survive it.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Yeah. Which is very unpleasant.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So now we're. Now we're right about to where it's time to get up and present. Right. So let's say in this scenario, you haven't fled, but you had those thoughts.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So you're anxious, and you have some physical symptoms going on. You get up and it's time to present. What's the sequence from this point on?
Client：So typically, like, I go to load my presentation at this point. Like, I have my note cards or whatever in front of me. I am, like, shaking at this point. I'm so. I don't know if it's scared or worried or maybe a combination of everything. And I'm just, like, sweating. My heart is racing. Like, I almost feel dizzy. I'm just so stressed out about what's going to happen then, you know, I'm starting to speak, and then the presentations are usually, like, 20 minutes or so.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：So I have to stay up there for the duration, and I'm just, like, you know, sweating, and I'm wondering, like, are people looking at me or people. Can people see it? You know, am I gonna forget something?
Counselor：So the. So the thoughts are, I wonder if they can see how anxious I am.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：I wonder if I'm going to do poorly on the presentation.
Client：Right. Or they think I'm lazy and I didn't prepare, or are they going to think that, you know, I'm dumb or I don't know, you know, what I'm doing. What are they going to think about me?
Counselor：So they might think less of you as a person.
Client：Right. Or, like, be judging me.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So there's a number of concerns that kind of go into your mind in that moment. So when does it start to turn around? So you start presenting is 20 minutes. You initially get up there and get your presentation up on the, like, the projection monitor?
Client：Something like that, yeah.
Counselor：When does it start to turn the corner?
Client：It depends. Sometimes I settle down a little bit, but then usually, like that, I get some sort of rhythm, I think. And then. But then it gets anxiety again until I get my grades. Do you know what I mean? And I'm like, until. Cause I feel like I'm gonna do poorly until that happens.
Counselor：When do you receive the grades?
Client：Sometimes. She usually doesn't give them that day, but often the next day or the day after.
Counselor：So does that intense anxiety that you're having while you're presenting last all the way?
Client：No, it definitely dissipates once I can, like, go sit down.
Counselor：Okay. So the next big drop off for symptoms would be when you're done. The presentation?
Client：Yeah. When eyes are maybe no longer on me, they've moved on to somebody else. So I figure, like, okay, they forgot about me. I'm safe for right then.
Counselor：But then there's this other worry of now we have to see what the grade's gonna be right.
Client：And I convinced myself that I did poorly.
Counselor：So the thought that's going through your mind is I'm going to receive a bad grade.
Client：Yeah. And that everyone saw me sweating and all these symptoms that I have, everyone is judging me.