Counselor：Hi, Terry. How you doing today?
Client：I'm okay, I think.
Counselor：You okay?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：I know when we talked last time, you were having a rough time dealing with the passing year, Sister Sheila.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And you're kind of a point where we were talking about emotional consequences, but also some of the thinking that's going on. Have you been processing that?
Client：Yeah, I've been thinking about some of that and, you know, trying to kind of work through it a little bit. So I think I'm kind of ready to kind of work through it and talk about it a little bit now.
Counselor：So, feeling a little less emotional and feeling a little more thinking about it. And, like, on the rational side, like we talked about rational and irrational beliefs.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：A little more focus there or more ability to focus there today.
Client：Yeah, I think I'm ready to think about it more.
Counselor：I know the emotional part was tough for you, and I'm sure it still.
Client：Is, but I think I've kind of got through some of that, and I'm ready to kind of get through the way I'm thinking about some things.
Counselor：Ready to look at through the thinking lens.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So to speak. All right. So what are some of the thoughts or beliefs that you've been having, you think maybe part of what's affecting your mood?
Client：Well, I've been. I've been thinking about it, and, you know, I just. I just feel like I don't. I don't have anybody that I can talk to. I mean, I just. I keep thinking about it. I don't have anybody to talk to. She was the only one I had to talk to.
Counselor：So in your relationship with her, you guys talked a lot. She was an important person in your life for a variety of reasons, but including that she was easy to talk to.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And that you could talk to her?
Client：I. Yes.
Counselor：So the thought is you have nobody to talk to.
Client：I just, you know, she was just everything to me. I talked to her about everything, and, you know, she was just always gave me good advice, and she could always work, you know, talk me through anything that I needed to talk about, and I just don't feel like I have that anymore. Since she's going, I don't have anybody like that anymore.
Counselor：That relationship is valuable to you, and you've lost that, and you feel like you've lost having anybody that you could talk to. Is that. Is that close?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：All right, so let's look at that thought. Let's break that down. Certainly you were able to talk to her, as you mentioned, and you have lost her.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Right. So you have lost someone that you could talk to that was very valuable to you, and that's understandably painful. The question would be, have you lost everybody that you could talk to? Is there anyone else in your life, for instance, currently, that you regularly speak with?
Client：Well, you know, since you said that, you know, maybe I do have some people that I can go to. They're not her. But, you know, you know, I have a couple of people that I can talk to that they're willing to talk to me about certain things. I guess if I give them the chance, you know, I'll be able to talk to them.
Counselor：So there are some people in your life that you can talk to. They certainly don't replace your sister, but you have people you can't communicate with, and that can be helpful for you.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So as we build kind of a rationale, self talk to replace the irrational thinking that you brought in.
Client：Right.
Counselor：Which was that you have no one to talk to. Could the replacement be something like, I had my sister to talk to, and she was really good at that, and it's painful to have lost her, but I gained something from that experience, and I do still have some people to talk to now.
Client：Yeah, that sounds about right.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Because nobody's gonna replace my sister. But, you know, I do think that there's other people that can. Could help me and what I need to talk. Yeah.
Counselor：And maybe one thing that you can. You can take away from this as well is that because of the way you could talk to your sister, you are a more effective communicator now, and you can make the most out of the relationships that you have now with people currently. Another rational thought kind of honors her contribution to you.
Client：Right? Yeah, because, you know, she is, like, the only one that believed in me. I mean, she just, you know, she always, you know, pushed me to go higher and, you know, on my job. She always said that, you know, that you can do it, you know, just believe in yourself. She always, you know, encouraged me to. To go back to school and, you know, I'm, you know, I have done that and, you know, continually doing that, you know, but, you know, she was a big motivator for me. And, you know, since she's gone now, you know, I don't feel like that I have anybody else that gives me that push that she did.
Counselor：So. So the thought would be, I've lost the only person that would believe in me. Yes, something like that. Okay, so she was a great positive force, great positive presence and contributor in your life, in part because she believed in you.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And now that's gone, and you feel like no one else will believe in you in that way.
Client：Not like she did.
Counselor：Not like she did.
Client：No. No.
Counselor：Which could be true. Right? There may be no one else that ever believes in you that same way, but similarly, like we were doing before, can you think of some people now that believed in you, maybe in a different way that's still helpful? It doesn't replace her, but it might still be helpful to you?
Client：Well, I do have very encouraging parents. They've always, you know, been, you know, somewhat of encouraged encouragement, but, you know, they just didn't have that extra push that she did. But, you know, they are very encouraging, and I have encouraging friends. You know, some of my friends, you know, want to see me succeed, and they give me encouraging words and tell me to, you know, to keep going. So, you know, she stopped at nothing to make. Make me go, you know, she just didn't take no for an answer. And, you know, you know, if she had to go with me to do something, she would, you know, that's why, you know, I just felt like, you know, I wasn't gonna make it, you know, without her, you know, pushing me.
Counselor：Her level of belief in you was higher or different or better than what you have now? In some ways, yes. Like, she was really committed to her belief in you, it sounds like.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So some people currently do believe in you, and that's good. It doesn't replace her level of belief, her type of belief in you. I also wonder if by her believing in you, you mentioned that it helped you with all kinds of accomplishments.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So I wonder if that's not a thought that you can use here as an adaptive response, that because she believed in me, I was able to do all these things. And maybe because she believed in you so much, she taught you how to believe in yourself to some extent.
Client：Well, yes, because, you know, she's been going, and I've continued to go to school, and, you know, every time I feel like I want to give up, I keep on saying, you know, I gotta keep going. You know, my sister would want me to keep going, you know, and she would want me to succeed, and I have to, you know, do, you know, keep, you know, keep my focus because she always talked about me, you know, keeping my focus. So, you know, those things that she taught me and instilled in me, I still hold on to. And it's. And it's, you know, it's kept me going.
Counselor：So she contributes to your life, even now?
Client：Well, yes. Yes.
Counselor：Because of what she did.
Client：Yeah. Because I still kind of hear her words of what she says to me. You know, what she said to me all the time, and I hold on to that, and that's what, you know.
Counselor：Drives me, and I think that's a fairly useful way of looking at things. Right. Do you find that to be useful?
Client：I find it to be very useful.
Counselor：Very useful.
Client：That's what I. That's the only way I keep going is I hold on to that.
Counselor：So you're getting. You're getting something positive from that relationship.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So there's a couple things we talked about here. Then we had the, we had a couple of different kind of irrational or less than useful beliefs and then a couple adaptive responses. Actually quite a few adaptive responses that you can apply, still realistic, but more positive and more useful for you. Do you feel like you can follow through with these adaptive responses and try out this thinking, this new behavior during this week?
Client：Yeah, I think there's something that I can do.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：Yeah, I think so. If I try, I believe that I can. There's some good things to work with.
Counselor：How are you doing emotionally now after kind of processing these thoughts and considering the adaptive responses, the rational beliefs?
Client：Well, I think it's put me in a better place emotionally because, you know, since, you know, looking at those things more differently kind of helped me to get in a better place emotionally, you know, not, you know, of course I'm sad, still sad over it, but, you know, those things help me get through and make me look on the brighter side of things. So I think that kind of really helps me a lot.
Counselor：Great. So take, so take those thoughts forward into your daily life this week and apply those thoughts, and we will catch up next week and we'll see how that affected, I hope, in a positive way, but how that affected your mood during this upcoming week. We'll catch up then and resume. Does that sound good?
Client：Sounds good to me.