Counselor：Hey, Julie. So last time you were here, you talked about the need for acceptance and approval from your friends, especially a close group of friends that you're involved with.
Client：Yeah, there's, like, my main friends that. Yeah, they kind of. It's like peer pressure, sort of. But I can't say no. I feel like I have to say yes just. Just because they are my friends. I do care about them and I don't want to lose them. But sometimes some of the stuff that we do, I feel like I don't really want to do it. And to keep them, I feel like I need to make the sacrifice to do what they want to do and go along with it, even though I know it might not be right. So I just kind of want to build up my self esteem and my confidence and accepting myself. That way I can tell them no and they won't overreact. So I want to be able to say it in a good way. That way I can keep them.
Counselor：Okay, so to do this, we're going to do a little technique that I've used before called role playing. So I will be one of your friends, and you'll remain who you are. Does that sound okay? Something you want to do?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. So I'm going to go ahead and start acting like one of your friends who's pressuring you. And the goal of this is to help you gain the confidence to say no and do things your way.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Okay. So let's go out Friday night for drinks. It'll be a group of us, and we'll stay out to, like, two in the morning, and we'll just have fun and go back to Jane's house and have more drinks and watch movies. Are you up for it?
Client：Oh, Claire, you see, I mean.
Counselor：There'S.
Client：A lot that I have going on right now, I have to say, study and take a test. It's really important. I do need to focus on that more, and I just don't. I just don't feel like going out tonight.
Counselor：Okay. Well, you could come out for a few hours, couldn't you?
Client：Yeah, I mean, I could, but I need to stay focused on some stuff. I know. I know. I really want to go out with y'all, but I just feel like I need to work on my. On my studies, so. I'm sorry.
Counselor：That's okay. Well, maybe next time you can come out when you're less busy.
Client：Oh, great.
Counselor：Now, see, in that way, it probably be a little more confrontational. But I think you said no and handled it very well. How do you feel about?
Client：I feel great. That actually went very well compared to what I had in mind. But I know it's not going to be exactly the same. So, I mean, as long as, you know, I keep up the front and I kind of tell them what's going on, I feel like they'll be all right.
Counselor：Do you think this is something you could practice outside of the counseling session to help build that confidence a bit more?
Client：Yeah, I do. I do think it would help. It's just finding someone, you know, to do it with. Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. Well, you could practice this a little bit more outside the session, and hopefully when you encounter another problem with your friends, you can say no, and you'll have more independence to yourself and more self acceptance. So thank you for coming in today.
Client：Thanks.