Counselor：Hi, Gabriella. I understand that you're here today because you've been experiencing some low mood.
Client：Yeah, I just. Recently, I'm just feeling down a lot and I can't really, like, snap out of it. Like, sometimes if it's happened before, I can just, like, get myself back on track, but recently I just find it really difficult to do.
Counselor：Hey, so it sounds like you've been experiencing some low mood and you're kind of struggling to get going a bit.
Client：Yeah, yeah, definitely.
Counselor：You've had low mood in the past, but it's kind of. You've been able to pull yourself out of it before, but more recently you found that harder. Okay, so I understand that you first went to your GP. He referred you here about two months ago. Can I ask what led you to go to the GP in the first place?
Client：My long term boyfriend broke up with me and it was such a shock. Like, I really wasn't expecting it and it just got me really down and I just felt really lonely and I didn't really want to see people and just wanted to be in my own space. And my mum told me I should probably go to the doctors. Oh. And he's referred me to you.
Counselor：Okay. So it sounds then like you had that breakup and you weren't expecting it, so it kind of came out of the blue a bit and that you've been on your own quite a lot, so you've not been seeing people as much. And it sounds like your mum noticed that there's been a bit of a change in you. Okay. And how have things been then, since then, since that happened and since you went to the GP?
Client：I just. Nothing's really changed. Nothing's really improved. I just feel down, like everything's an effort and just feel distant from things. And like I said, I can't snap out of it.
Counselor：Okay. And how did you feel about coming here today?
Client：I was kind of disappointed in myself because I feel like nobody else my age is doing this. Like, I should have been able to snap out of it. Like, it's just another thing that I've not really. It's another thing that's making me stand out for the wrong reasons.
Counselor：Okay. So you feel like it's kind of odd or unusual to be coming to see a clinical psychologist? I suppose I just want to reassure you that it's absolutely normal to have feelings of depression and anxiety. It's really very common and it certainly isn't odd or strange at all. So it sounds like it was actually quite hard for you to come here today?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So what, I guess led you to do that? Because it sounds like maybe there was a lot pushing you against coming here today, but you've managed to come anyway.
Client：I'm just hoping that it's gonna help, I think. I didn't really want to admit it because it's just another failure, but my mum was talking to me and I know she's not really happy with the way I'm behaving. I didn't really want to disappoint her again and so I thought there's no harm in it, so she thought it'd come.
Counselor：So it sounds like partly you're doing it then, for your mum because you're a bit worried that she isn't pleased with you at the moment.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. Well, I think it's great that you've come here and definitely there's a lot of evidence to suggest that psychological therapy can help depression and particularly the type of therapy that we're going to be doing, which is called cognitive behaviour therapy. And I'll tell you a bit more about that as we go on, but I'm just trying to find out a bit more about you today. So I saw from your notes that you're a medic student.
Client：Yeah, I'm not currently in uni at the moment, but, yeah, last year as a medic student.
Counselor：Okay. So I guess what's the reason that you're not in uni this year?
Client：It was pretty tough first year, so they then suggested that I took a year out. This is the break.
Counselor：Okay. So just thinking. So that would be about six months ago, was it that your year out started? Yeah. And it sounds then maybe like your first year was also quite tough.
Client：Yeah, it was. I thought it's tough for everyone, but obviously we all take it in different ways, don't we?
Counselor：And you're planning on. Are you planning on returning and.
Client：Yeah, I'm gonna have to. Really? So. Yeah.
Counselor：Don't sound too sure about that, though.
Client：I think returning is probably that's what's gonna make everyone happy. And I think, you know, at least I'll be able to finally achieve something and get something right, so. Yeah, like, next year I'm gonna. I'll get through it. Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. So it doesn't. It doesn't sound like you want to go back.
Client：I do. I do enjoy it. I just don't feel like me at the moment and I just. It's a lot of work and it's a lot of pressure, but that's what comes of it. And, you know, it'll work out for the best if I go.
Counselor：Okay. So I guess then there's quite a lot of thoughts and feelings about going back at the moment. I'm just wondering, in the meantime, what are you up to? What have you been doing?
Client：Well, I've not really had much on the horizon. My mum, her friend, owns a restaurant and she suggested that I did a bit of waitressing there just for a bit of money and stuff, because obviously I'm not in uni, so I've done that.
Counselor：Okay. How many shifts have you done there?
Client：I've only done one so far. Yeah. I don't know whether it's something that I'd probably go back to, but.
Counselor：Okay. When was that shift?
Client：It was last week, actually. Okay.
Counselor：And how was it? I suppose I'm intrigued. Can you tell me a bit more about that?
Client：It was different, you know, because it was like, I could. I did enjoy it because there was like. It's just different aspect and I had to, like, speak to people and, like, try to get their orders and try to remember it and stuff. Like, I wasn't very good, but I suppose, like, it was handy to have some money and, like, get out the house.
Counselor：Okay, so it sounds like you quite enjoyed that, then.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：What makes you think you weren't very good?
Client：I just. I was just a bit slow and people sometimes didn't understand what I was saying, so I'd have to talk louder or quieter or slower. And I got a bit confused sometimes with the orders and I just don't really think that I'm not really, like, a friendly. Like, people don't really think that I'm a friendly person, so they didn't really want to talk to me and stuff. I felt like I was, like, inconveniencing them by, like, asking them things and getting things wrong. But, yeah, they said that apparently most people get, like, a few mistakes on their first shift. But then again, she's my mum's friend, so it's probably why she's saying it.
Counselor：So the person who owns a restaurant is your mum's friend?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. So it says you're saying that you think you weren't very good and that's because you're a bit slow and you got confused with some orders.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Is it? But you said it's common for people to do that on their first shift.
Client：That's what she said to us. But it's probably just. She's just trying to make me feel better. She probably felt sorry for me because I'm obviously not very good at it. Like, I'm not very good at any things. Recently, I think she just felt sorry for me.
Counselor：Okay. So I've just been noting down some of those thoughts that you've been having. You kind of say that you feel like you're not very good. You're slow, you're confused with the orders, and you feel like you're inconveniencing her and she feels. So for you. I suppose I'm wondering, I mean, what makes you think that she feels sorry for you?
Client：Well, like, like I said, she's my mum's friend, and she's obviously feeling sorry for my mum as well because she's got a daughter that's not like anyone else of her age, and she's just, like, all alone and she's not getting involved. So I think she just feels sorry for me and she doesn't want to say anything to upset me.
Counselor：But, yeah, when you're having these kind of thoughts, because that's quite a lot of negative thoughts you're describing, how do you feel?
Client：Empty? I don't. I'm just calling as it is. I'm just calling it as reality. And I feel like I'm being honest with myself by just voicing it and not trying to get around hiding it, because I know, like, I can say in myself.
Counselor：So it sounds like you feel like those thoughts are very true, then. I mean, if you were going to rate them, say, I'm going to pick out some of those thoughts you described. So you said I'm not very good and I'm inconveniencing them. How much would you say you believe those on a scale out of a hundred, where a hundred is like, I absolutely believe it and zero is like, I don't believe it at all.
Client：I'm about 80. Yeah.
Counselor：So you feel quite sure that you definitely believe those? Okay. And you said that when you're thinking those thoughts, you start to feel quite empty.
Client：I just feel distant. And like I said, I'm not really myself. I just. It's like I'm not really there, but when I am, I can't even do a good job.
Counselor：Are there any other emotions that you experience?
Client：I feel drained. I don't feel like I'm in touch with anything. Just. It's like everything's going on around me, but I'm just not there. I'm just. It's like I'm just watching.
Counselor：Okay, so you feel empty, distant. You feel drained. And how when you're feeling these emotions, how do you feel in your body? Kind of what sensations do you notice?
Client：I don't know how to describe it. I get, like, I have a bit of, like, you know when you kind of get, like, butterflies when you're nervous and stuff? Kind of get a bit of that.
Counselor：Do you feel some butterflies?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Did you have butterflies that night when you were at the restaurant?
Client：Yeah, I was pretty nervous then, but when I got into it, they went away and, like, it distracted me for a bit until, obviously, I realized that I wasn't doing a very good job.
Counselor：Okay. And when you have those emotions, how does it affect your energy levels? Do you feel more energetic, less energetic or about the same?
Client：When I'm feeling down, yeah.
Counselor：When you're having those emotions that you were describing, I just feel drained.
Client：Like, I didn't even have, like, the energy to wake up in the morning sometimes. Like, oh, I just feel pointless and, like, my body's heavy and I don't want to. Yeah.
Counselor：So it sounds like you feel very tired, you're struggling to wake up. You said it's pointless. And what do you do then when you feel like that? So I guess you just talked about when you wake up in the morning and you feel heavy, and I suppose you've been maybe having some of these thoughts and those emotions potentially the night before. What do you then do? How do you respond to that?
Client：I just have to get up. I suppose I don't really have a choice because my mum. I live with my mum, and I know it's hard for her, so I don't want her to be too worried. So I just. I just try to carry on as normal. I get up. It takes longer and I don't want to, but I do, and I'll get on with my routine.
Counselor：So you're a bit slower in getting up.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：But you are still getting up anyway. And what about your kind of. What do you think about when you're doing that?
Client：I'm just thinking that nobody else is like me, it's my age, like, nobody should be feeling like this, and I'm the only one that does.
Counselor：So it sounds like you think a bit more about the problem and you kind of spend time thinking about how.
Client：I hate having it. I don't want to feel like this, but I do, and nobody else I know does, so it makes me feel even more alone, and that gets me even more down, and I just don't want to disappoint anyone and I just don't really want it.
Counselor：Okay, so it sounds like you try and toughen up on yourself a little bit. Tell yourself to work harder, to be different.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. And when you start telling yourself that kind of thing and how does that make you feel? Does that make you feel better afterwards or worse?
Client：It feels worse because I still can't snap out of it. Like, I'm aware it's happening and I just. And I'm trying, but I just can't. And then it's just another thing that I'm failing at. It's just another thing that I can't really get it.