Counselor：Hi, Samantha. How you doing today?
Client：Good, how are you?
Counselor：I'm doing all right. How have things been since last week?
Client：Things? You know, I've been really sort of preoccupied and anxious a lot this weekend. My daughter got sick, so I had to take three days off of work to take care of her. And I'm starting to worry. She's been sick a lot since I've gone back to work, and she's in daycare, and I've had to take a lot of time off work, and I'm getting close to going over my allotted amount of days. And so I'm finding myself being very anxious about that and then feeling guilty because when I'm trying to take care of her, I'm always worrying about work. So.
Counselor：Okay, so it sounds like a couple things may be going on. Child. Child's been sick, so you're taking off days. So you're a little worried about your relationship with your employer. At the same time, you want to make sure you're taking good care of your child, so you're having trouble reconciling those two.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：All right. What was the last time it happened? Can you describe what happened the last.
Client：Time I had to take off work? It was just this week. She woke up one morning with a really high fever, so I had to call out that day, and then she still had a fever the next day, and then I had to take a third day because she has to be fever free before she can go back to daycare. So the first day was, I was okay with that. But then, like, the second. And then when I started realizing that I was going to have to take a third day, then I really start to get kind of panicky and worried about it.
Counselor：All right, so let me see. Let's go through each day. So the first day when you discovered that she was sick, right. What were you thinking then when you had to call out of work?
Client：Well, because she's been sort of sick a lot lately, I was a little bit worried, and I was sort of, you know, I have this number, ten, because I only have ten days for the whole year. So I have this number in my head, and I just thought, well, there's one more day I gotta take away from that ten that I have. And. But I was able to sort of think about. I was a little worried about any work that I would miss, you know, keeping up with my caseload and stuff at work, so. But I was able to kind of figure out that I would be okay for a day. And I can kind of make up for that when I get back.
Counselor：Okay, so your thinking was, this isn't ideal, but I can live with it.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Just one day, right? How about on day two when you realize that you're going to have to take a second day?
Client：Then I got a little bit more worried. And then I did start to also, you know, add the worry of I was going to start to get behind at work. Not only was I missing more time, but I was also going to be behind on my work. So then I started thinking, when I go back, it's going to be a mad scramble to kind of catch up and keep up with everything and, you know, so then it became worrying about my workload and worrying about taking more time.
Counselor：Okay, so a little more stressful version of what happened on day one. And then how about when you discovered that you had to take a third day off?
Client：I was. Then it was just more amplified, you know, amplified worry. And it was a lot harder for me to let it go. I just kept thinking. I kept going back to it. And then I started feeling guilty because I was so preoccupied, worried about that. And I was trying to answer emails and do some stuff and send out some emails to people that I work with to try to help me out with things at work since I wasn't there. And then I felt guilty because I wasn't really caring for my child as best as I felt I should have been. You know, I started feeling kind of like a bad mom.
Counselor：So, so guilty and a bad mom. And that was mostly on the third day? That was the worst of it, yes. Now, did this go up against the weekend? It was the third day, Friday. So then you kind of knew that by Monday things would be able to return to work. So tell me what happened when you returned to work on Monday.
Client：Well, I checked in with the main office and, you know, I just said, I'm really, you know, I'm starting to worry. I'm getting. I know I had to take a lot of time, but you. I've done the best I can to try to make other arrangements, but just starting back in, starting in daycare, she's just been sick a lot and I can't control it. I'm doing the best I can. I asked them if there was anything I needed to do as far as providing doctor's notes and stuff, and they said, no, they don't need a doctor's note since it was my daughter that was sick. They said there's nothing, nothing that I really can do and just try to not have it happen much more if I can just do what I can to not miss more.
Counselor：So they said that to you?
Client：Yeah, but. Yeah.
Counselor：How did they frame that?
Client：They kind of just said, you know, do what you can to not have it happen, but if it, you know, if it has to happen, you know, what can I do about it? It's kind of. They were saying.
Counselor：So they were understanding.
Client：I didn't feel like they were that understanding, but I also didn't feel like they were gonna take any punitive action against me. Right. Right then and there or anything.
Counselor：Did you anticipate a worse reaction than you experienced?
Client：Yeah, I did. And I also anticipated that they would maybe have more of a procedure for how to handle it, and they didn't have a procedure, which also made me feel a little worried. I can't imagine I'm the first mom that has had to deal with this. And they kind of talked like it's never happened before, so I kind of felt anxious because I thought, am I really the first mom that's had to take a lot of time off because their child's sick? They didn't give me the impression that they had sort of a protocol or like they had dealt with this before.
Counselor：Right. So sort of like it took them by surprise.
Client：Yeah. Or they just didn't have a plan for what to do about it.
Counselor：They weren't investing a lot of energy in thinking about that?
Client：No. No, I guess nothing.
Counselor：And when was this again? How long ago?
Client：Just this past week.
Counselor：So how has this week been? Bag of work?
Client：Oh, it's been very busy because I'm trying to catch up and get everything handled, but that's the way it always is. So nobody has said anything to me or anything about the absences other than that first, yeah.
Counselor：And there have been no more absences. Okay. Earlier you mentioned being a good mom. What does a good mom look like?
Client：Somebody who takes care of their child and puts them. Makes them a priority, like their first priority, and, you know, does the things that they need to do to make sure they're child is taken care of.
Counselor：And you're a little worried through this last experience you were telling me about that you didn't rise to the level of good mom.
Client：Yeah, I felt like I wasn't being a good mom because I was preoccupied and making work a bit of a bigger priority than taking care of my kidney.
Counselor：Okay. So good mom's more about. More than just rather your behavior, what you're doing. It's about what you're also thinking. So you took care of your child.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：But your mind, your thoughts were somewhere else some of the time, and that's where you feel like you've wandered out of the good mom area. Okay, how about on the other side? How about a good employee? Did you mention that you want to be a good employee?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Yeah. What's that look like?
Client：Well, somebody that, you know, takes care of all of their workload and handles all of the tasks that they have each day, and someone that's consistent and reliable and, you know, puts effort into what they're doing and gets their job done, really, you know, reliably.
Counselor：And that's where you feel like with this. So the last eight work days you missed. You missed three. Okay, how about in the last year, how many days have you missed?
Client：Well, I missed a lot for maternity leave, certainly.
Counselor：Understandable.
Client：But excluding that I've missed since the school year started, I've missed. If you include the three, I've missed nine days. But some of those were half days. They add up to nine days.
Counselor：Okay, total nine days?
Client：Yeah. And you're allowed ten per school year? For school year, it's only January and I'm already at nine.
Counselor：I can see where that would cause worry. What happens if you go over the.
Client：I don't know. I mean, I think that they would dock my pay for those. If I was there a day and I didn't have any more sick days left, they would just dock my pay for that day. But outside of that, I don't know what else would happen.
Counselor：Is there anybody that you work with that you could ask that question to, like an HR department?
Client：Yeah, I guess I could contact the HR department.
Counselor：I'm just thinking. Cause you're just one day away from being at that number, might be prudent just to talk with them and see. So you know what to expect.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So this is this whole thing, though, the missing days cause you anxiety, frustration?
Client：Yeah, a little bit, yeah.
Counselor：How about any type of feeling down at all?
Client：A little bit. Sometimes when I start feeling like I'm a bad mom.
Counselor：Okay, so as far as your child is concerned, your relationship with your child, you have some anxiety, relationship at work, some anxiety. But the sadness mostly surrounds how you feel you're treating your child. Of all the emotions, frustration, anxiety, what I'll refer to as depression, let's just say sadness. What's bothering you the most? What emotional response does bother you most?
Client：Probably sort of the guilt and the feelings of not being able to be the best mom.
Counselor：How would you rate yourself right now as a mother if, say, ten was the best mother you could imagine. Right. And one was the absolute worst.
Client：Probably like, I don't know, an eight.
Counselor：An eight? Okay. That's pretty good, right?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：What would be the cutoff to where. What's the cutoff score in that little scale I just gave you for good mother and not good mother?
Client：I guess, like halfway, like.
Counselor：So five is good enough?
Client：Yeah, I don't feel like it's good enough for me.
Counselor：Okay. Okay.
Client：I wouldn't be okay with that.
Counselor：So if you looked at somebody else, another person in a similar situation, a five would be acceptable, right?
Client：Probably, yeah.
Counselor：But how about for you specifically?
Client：Yeah, that's not.
Counselor：That's not gonna cut it. What would cut it?
Client：Um. I don't know. At least a seven.
Counselor：At least a seven, yeah. And you're an eight?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Sure.
Client：No, not sure.
Counselor：Okay. So you're close to the border. I feel like you're close to the border and you're.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Out of your value system of being not a good mother.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：What happens if you.
Client：Well, as good a mother as I want to be.
Counselor：Okay. How good do you want to be?
Client：Yeah, I want to be like an eight or higher.
Counselor：Eight or higher. Well, you are an eight, you said.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay, so you want to be a ten, sounds like.
Client：Well, yeah. Doesn't everybody want to be the best at what they do?
Counselor：I mean, I think people are driven to do their best, but is it crucial to be perfect? Is it crucial to be a tendency.
Client：No, there's some leeway. I guess you have to allow for that.
Counselor：Remember before, in other sessions, for other situations you've brought in here, we talked about dysfunctional thinking, irrational thinking. How does when you reflect on that, like, the usefulness of these thoughts, that other mothers can be a five and be. And that's good, right. You need to be an eight or higher. Eight, nine or ten. Does this seem useful, like a useful way of thinking?
Client：In some ways it's useful because it keeps me. It keeps me on track, if that makes sense. It keeps me pushing to keep doing the best I can. Driven.
Counselor：Motivated.
Client：Yeah, motivated.
Counselor：So it does have a useful side. Does it have an unuseful side, a less than useful side?
Client：Well, yeah, I guess it does. In the sense that if I become too worried about it, then I'm wasting energy on worry instead of being able to put that energy into being a good mom.
Counselor：Yeah. So I guess one of the things I'm getting at here is has the worry. Has the anxiety and the worry paid off for you?
Client：Probably not.
Counselor：Probably not. So you're suffering with it. It might make you a little more vigilante, but mostly it's just causing you to suffer.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So at the heart of it, you're not a bad mom. You're in the good mom category. You're a good employee. But your way of valuing yourself, your perception, is that you're not doing a great job at either one.
Client：Mm hmm. Exactly.
Counselor：And that's the thinking I'm getting at. It's not, you know, it's not necessarily irrational. I'm thinking it's just less than useful. Right. It's dysfunctional.
Client：Yeah, I can see that.
Counselor：Yeah. We're talking about that third day, right? The third day of work you had to. You had to call off. And do you remember any of the specific thoughts that were going through your mind on that? Was that a morning when you figured it out? Like a Friday morning?
Client：Yeah. No, it was really the night before. But, you know, I went as far as to think, am I going to get fired? You know, I had to kind of think about that.
Counselor：So your thought was, am I going to get fired?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And then what was the feeling that came right after that?
Client：Um. Panic.
Counselor：Panic?
Client：Worry. Oh, yeah.
Counselor：Maybe some anxiety.
Client：Some anxiety, yeah.
Counselor：Were you able to do anything to address that panic or your anxiety at that time? Like, did you tell yourself anything or did you take some action?
Client：I did tell myself that I didn't go over yet, and, you know, hopefully I won't. You know, there's still a chance that I'm not going to go over all my days, and hopefully it won't go so far as to fire me, you know?
Counselor：And how'd you feel after you consciously had that thought?
Client：A little bit better, but the thought still kept hovering around. Yeah.
Counselor：The whole time. Probably all the way till Monday. Right. When you return to work.
Client：Yeah. Yeah. Like, I wanted to call somebody at work and talk to them about it and make sure it was okay, but, you know, it was the weekend, so I couldn't do any of those things. I just had to wait it out. Yeah.
Counselor：So we've talked before about self talk. You might remember me saying the phrase adaptive response. Right. So it's the kind of pre packaged response we have to thoughts that we've identified is not so useful.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So would you agree to those thoughts, like, am I gonna get fired and all that? Not very useful in that moment.
Client：Yes. Not useful in that moment.
Counselor：Understandable. Right. But not useful. So what's now? You had sort of some self talk that you applied on your own. What's some other self talk. What's some other. Another thought that you could think or something you can said yourself that could counter an automatic thought like that? Like specifically that I'm gonna lose my job.
Client：Well, I guess I could say, you know, I didn't, you know, I'm not, I haven't had any conversations with anybody that have indicated that. So sort of like maybe I just need to not worry about it or cross that bridge when I come to it kind of thing. Like, hopefully it won't, I don't know if it will happen or not, and hopefully it won't happen.
Counselor：So the self talk there is, there's no clear indication that it's going to happen.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So why borrow the worry? Right. How about other, how about adaptive behaviors? We talked about the importance of support systems before in other sessions. Is there anybody else that could watch your child if you were really running up against that?
Client：Yeah, my mom can sometimes. I did call her this, this week to see if she could take one of take a day, but she couldn't because of what she had going on. But in another time she might be able to take a day and stay home or my sister can do that as well and my husband can sometimes it depends on what is going on that week for him at work. So there are some options there.
Counselor：Did you explore those options for this last time?
Client：I did, I did. But just the circumstances didn't work out.
Counselor：So none of those individuals were available.
Client：Right.
Counselor：Is there any other options you have for care? Is that it?
Client：That's really it. You know, when she's sick, that's really it. Because I don't want to put her around any other kids, which is why I wouldn't send her to daycare.
Counselor：So that seems reasonable. Okay. There are some things you've already done right. And I think at this point, since to address, I know this is the lesser of your worries, which is your employer. You're more worried about being a good mom. But to go look at the employer side for a second, you can talk to HR, you can try to understand what the consequences are for going over, explain that it doesn't appear to be your fault. And I don't know what you can do in terms support. Maybe try to get a better awareness of the schedules when they're available or convey the nature of your problem to them to get some more support.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So that was one issue. Now you highlighted more prominently, though, the good mother. I want to touch on that as well. You did everything you had to do to care for your child?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Are you sure?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. 100%.
Client：Except for my thinking I was maybe a little not as present as I should have been.
Counselor：Okay. And we'll get to that. But your behavior.
Client：But behavior. Yeah.
Counselor：You did everything a good mom would do.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. So is it okay if you're doing everything you need to do to think thoughts that don't seem congruent with that, you know, that distract you away from that?
Client：I guess it's not ideal, but it's okay.
Counselor：It's not ideal. So you'd really rather have the ability to be really focused on what's going on with your child to the exclusion of what's going on in other circumstances?
Client：Yeah. Or at least be able to put my worry about the other circumstances aside for that time period.
Counselor：So by addressing the employer issue, that might give you a little relief on the good mom issue. So here's another opportunity to talk about dysfunctional thoughts. I think that as you reflect on whether you're a good mom or not, you're really basing it on this idea that if I'm thinking about something other than my child, I'm in the wrong place in terms of being a good mom, you're only being distracted.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So that pushes you on that one to ten scale.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：The more thoughts you have like that, you think of it as, like, pushing you down toward five.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. So when you have those thoughts, what's an adaptive response or, you know, self talk? What can you tell yourself in those moments.
Client：That I'm doing? I'm behaving, doing the behaviors that I need to do. And the baby doesn't know what I'm thinking, so probably not. She doesn't know whether I'm distracted or worried, so I'm not doing any harm to her.
Counselor：Who does know you're distracted or worried?
Client：I guess just me. Yeah.
Counselor：So the self talk there would be, I'm doing what I have to do to be a good mom, and that's what my child sees. But I have these understandable thoughts that come in where I worry about other things and more or less just is what it is. I mean, you're permitted to worry about things. Life isn't going to be worry free.
Client：True.
Counselor：But we can. We can work to not suffer more than we have to.
Client：Right.
Counselor：Does that kind of make sense?
Client：Yeah, it makes sense. And, you know, when you say it back to me, the things that I'm saying, it does sound a little bit irrational or unhelpful.
Counselor：Less than useful?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Yeah, a little less than useful. It's not, you know, I want. And this is an important distinction. It's not good or bad, and those words have a function in our lives, but they're a little dangerous when applied in terms of mental health. When they're applied to things like good mom, bad mom, it doesn't leave a lot of gray area to talk about improvement. Also, it seems like from what you're describing, you're way into the good mom category anyway. If you're an eight, a ten, I think most people would be happy with an eight out of ten.
Client：True.
Counselor：So it's not like you've drifted down toward five or four somewhere. Okay, so there's a couple different. I know we talked about two different subjects, right. But they're related. The work situation and the situation of caring for your child. But those are some self talk strategies. So what I'd like you to do when you go home today, and I would. I would ask that you do it today if you can. I think it's important that it stays in terms of time near when we're having this conversation.
Client：Right.
Counselor：If you could try to document some of those automatic thoughts. I remember I gave you a worksheet before. Right. And then work on some of your own. We'll call them adaptive responses.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Okay. And maybe around this area or maybe around other areas as well. You know, it's okay if you have other problems you want to apply the model to, but certainly around this issue of the childcare versus the work performance, that's the real struggle that's going on right now inside of you. Is that right?
Client：Yes. Yes.
Counselor：You think you'd be able to have that completed next week? We mean.
Client：Yeah, I think I can handle that. Yep.
Counselor：Okay. So we'll leave it there, and I'll see you next week. Okay.
Client：Thank you.
Counselor：Thanks, Samantha.