Counselor：Hello, misses James. How are you doing today?
Client：I'm okay.
Counselor：That's good. I just want to start out really quickly by getting a couple of the formalities out of the way. I know it's a little bit awkward coming in, you know, always the first time, but I'll just introduce myself and then you can introduce yourself and we'll just talk a little bit about you and your family and all that. So again, my name is Marisa and I just want you to know in the beginning that what I do as a counselor is more important to me than just a paycheck. I'm not in this job because it's just a source of income from. I really enjoy getting to know the clients that come through those doors and I like to help them in whatever ways I can. If it's just listening for that day and there's a burden that you have or if it's. If it's some kind of resource that you need from me and that I'm able to reach out there and get for you so that you can. You can be more successful and more fulfilled and happier than. That's what I want for you. Definitely. But why don't you tell me a little bit about yourself?
Client：Well, I don't know what to tell. I mean, they. The Medicaid office told me I had to come down and to be counseled so I can continue getting my benefits, which I need because I cancer. So that's why I'm here.
Counselor：What about your family? Tell me a little bit about them.
Client：Well, I'm married, I have three children. They're all grown. And I'm taking care of my grandson, Jason. He's seven.
Counselor：Seven, okay. And you said that you were referred here because you needed to continue benefits now that you found out you have cancer.
Client：Mm hmm.
Counselor：Okay. Do you want to tell me a little bit about that?
Client：Well, the doctors have said that I have cancer again. Had it a couple of years ago, and I beat it. And now they're saying that it's come back. It's not something I really want to talk about, but I'm still working and just trying to get through the day.
Counselor：Definitely. You are working. What is that? You know, what is it that you do?
Client：I'm a housekeeper for a hotel here.
Counselor：Okay, that's wonderful. That's good. How have you been balancing that with. With getting sick? Are you feeling the effects of being sick yet? Or is it just recent that it's just.
Client：Oh, yeah, I'm tired. I'm tired all the time. You know, it's just a real struggle to get out of bed all the time, and then when you go to bed at night, you can't sleep. So I'm just tired all the time, and then I'm taking care of Jason, my grandson, and I'm just tired all the time. But you gotta do what you gotta do. You gotta get up and go every day. There's nothing. You just have to keep on going.
Counselor：Definitely. Well, that's really good, though, because if you heard a little bit of surprise in my voice, I mean, it was. I'm very impressed that you have cancer. You're taking care of your grandson, and you're still out there working, and you keep saying, you know, gotta do what you gotta do. Gotta get up every day, gotta keep going. You seem to have a lot of perseverance, and I really think that's gonna be a strength and asset for you during this whole process. And just coming here, being willing to cooperate, that's very good. So I want you to know that that is a positive characteristic. A lot of people wouldn't necessarily respond in that same manner. That's really good.
Client：Well, there's nothing else to do. You just gotta keep on going. Keep on. You know, nobody else would take care of Jason if it weren't for me, so. And you got to pay the bills. So you really. I mean, you might not understand that since you have a high paying job, but, you know, it's paycheck to paycheck. You got to keep. It's not like I can't go to work if I don't. I don't have the money, and I don't care. Pay the bills.
Counselor：Yeah, I can understand that. I haven't always had this job, and getting here has been an extremely long process, so I can empathize a little bit with the beginning parts of my life and being in school. Students don't have any money at all. I was working two jobs in order to go to school with loans. So, you know, I feel you a little bit on. On that feeling like you. You have to. You just have to.
Client：You can't, you know, I'm a choice.
Counselor：Yeah. So many people have been there. That's a normal thing to feel, to feel that way. But why don't you tell me a little bit about your children? You said. Did you say you had how many?
Client：Three. I have two sons and a daughter. My daughter's not around that much, and my sons are busy. They're busy working, and they've got their families and their own lives and stuff. So they don't have a lot of time. They just, you know, doing the best they can, too. They have to work.
Counselor：Do they live near, in the area, or do you see them very often?
Client：They live around here, but I don't see them too often. We get together for birthdays and stuff for Christmas.
Counselor：How would you rate, like, on a scale of one to ten, how would you rate your relationship with your, with your three children at this point? You can do them individually or collectively whenever.
Client：I don't know. Um, I guess my sons are all right, but I don't talk with my daughter that much. My sons are okay. They're just busy. They're trying to take care of their families. But my daughter, she's, she drinks and she uses drugs, and she don't hang out with the right crowd, and so she can't take care of Jason right now.
Counselor：Okay, so she's Jason's then biological mother. Okay.
Client：Yeah, that makes sense.
Counselor：Okay. And what about your husband? What role does he play in all of this? At this?
Client：None. None. No, he doesn't. He's mad because he doesn't think Jason should be with us. He thinks that his mom should be raising him. But Jason doesn't need to be with his mom right now. He needs to be with us. He needs to be in a good home. And even as tired as I am, she can't take care of him.
Counselor：So that situation has affected them, your husband and youre relationship? Mm hmm. Okay.
Client：Yeah, he's just mad. He just works, goes home and watches tv and goes to bed, works, goes home, watches tv, goes to bed. That's all he's good for right now.
Counselor：Well, there's a lot of things that you've just expressed to me in the past few minutes that are definitely areas that we can work on, that we can try to find some solutions. And that's going to be one of our main goals throughout our sessions, is to look for solutions. It is healthy and wonderful, actually, in a way, even if it's painful and difficult to talk about some of these things. But what makes our time so effective is that we actually identify little things here and there that we can definitely utilize to bring about positive change. So we can definitely look at just, you know, your relationship with your husband, your relationship with your children. I'm not doing counseling with your daughter, but definitely at least providing you with some resources that you could equip her with to get her on the right track. And you seem to mention your grandson a lot, so that can even be a strength, even though it's an extra thing to put on the table that you care for him and you really want him to be successful. So what is your relationship with him like? Tell me a little bit about him and what kind of young man he is.
Client：He's good. Good little guy. He likes to play ball and he's good in school, but he's seven, so he likes to be playing. And, you know, I get tired with the chemo and I can't do that all the time. You know, part of me feels like he should be with, you know, someone that can take good care of him and I'll worry about him a lot.
Counselor：Does he go well? If he's seven, he's in school. Then. Does he have any programs at school? Like best friends or anything that he's involved in sports?
Client：Yeah, he does. All right. Yeah, he does. Okay.
Counselor：Okay, well, that's good, too, that he's. He's healthy. He's healthy and he's involved. That's good. That's gonna be a strength for him throughout this process. One question that I like to ask towards the beginning of my sessions with my clients is. It's called the miracle question. And if you could experience a miracle, maybe aside from, like, the cancer just being totally gone and life being perfect. Well, if life was perfect. Actually, if life was perfect for you, and you woke up tomorrow and everything was the way that you would hope that it would be, and everything was turned out awesome, what would that look like for? If you just woke up in the morning and everything was perfect, how would you describe that perfect state or that perfect day?
Client：I guess that things would just be normal. That I could pay the bills and I wasn't tired and Jason had his mom, that everybody was just normal. Just everything was okay. Not worrying about the bills.
Counselor：Can you tell me a little more? Is there any little details that would be different for you?
Client：No, I just want things normal.
Counselor：What would that. What is normal? What is your ideal for normal meaning?
Client：Well, not being sick and Jason having his mom and the family being together and being happy again, and, you know, being able to work and pay the bills.
Counselor：Yeah. Okay. Okay. Well, I just want to thank you for coming in today. Blah, blah, blah. We're done. Oh, I think let's see if this worked. We have a twelve.