Counselor：Hi, Andrew. How you doing today?
Client：Hey, Doug. Nice to see you.
Counselor：Nice to see you. It's been about a week since I seen you last. I know you're having some different difficulties, particularly at work.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Any changes there?
Client：Not really. I mean, it's pretty much the same pace. I'm very frustrated with the whole system. I'm working with inner city kids, african american kids, males in particular. And, you know, I sit and talk with these kids and I realize that there's not much I can do for them. You know, for the most part, we're talking about, you know, criminal arrest, drug abuse, you know, no education. And, you know, I don't know what I can really do for them anymore. I mean, you know, I sit and talk to them, but really, in terms of their statistics, it's looking pretty bad for them. So, you know, I get pretty frustrated and it's kind of depressing to do this every day.
Counselor：All right, so as you're working with these use, you're looking at their circumstances and you're saying the odds just don't look good for major improvement. That's leading you to lose hope in your ability to help them into different circumstances.
Client：Absolutely, yeah. I mean, it's just their reality. A kid comes in and mom is either dad's incarcerated, rotted, a picture. Mom is either on drugs or not fully engaged. And this kid has absolutely no life skills. None. He's self medicating or smoking marijuana. At the very least, it's marijuana. And he is just totally convinced that, you know, this is who he is the rest of his life. And he's sitting in front of me looking for answers, and I don't know if I have him.
Counselor：What kind of questions do they ask you?
Client：It's not even questions as more as it is just statements of, you know, this is my life, you know, the struggle is real. This is what I do, this is where I am. And, you know, anything other than this is not even, you know, I didn't fathom. So I'm sitting here, just kidding, I'm trying to draw him out of that whole mindset. But we're talking about years of social conditioning, years and years and years of it. And I just don't know if, you know, I have the skills and the tools to really break through that way of thinking.
Counselor：All right, so can you think of a particular case, particular youth that you're working with that, where you're finding the struggle. I just think of one particular individual where you're frustrated, you're making these statements that kind of. This is the way it is. They don't seem like they have much hope. You don't seem like they have much hope for them. Right. So you have one in mind.
Client：Yes, they do.
Counselor：Okay, so what's his self statement? What's he saying to you that you think is getting a reaction from you?
Client：That he's a drug dealer. He's going to continue to be a drug dealer. He's not going to stop. And that he's involved with gang activity, and that's his family. It's the only family he's ever known, and he's loyal to them. And that loyalty is deep. And he has absolutely no. Even the thought of going back to prison doesn't shape this kid.
Counselor：Not afraid of that.
Client：Not afraid of it for them. Gerald is like going to the school courtyard. There's all his boys in jail. So I'm sitting here like, what in the hell am I doing here with this kid? You know, what kind of options do I give him when I don't even believe he has any at this point?
Counselor：So that's really your automatic thought, is I don't believe he has any options. That's what's going through your mind when he says things like he's involved in gang activity and wants to continue dealing drugs? That's your thought?
Client：That's my thought, yeah.
Counselor：There's no way out for him.
Client：I don't see it. I just don't. I really don't see it for him. You know, he's self medicating. He's giving dirty urine to the probation office. He doesn't care. The judge has given them pass after pass after pass. But the kid just seems intent to, you know, to live this life.
Counselor：So in a sense, your mood, the sadness, the frustration is linked to, for example, this use statements and his philosophy. So he's saying that success is not an option, as you would think of success.
Client：Right.
Counselor：And you're reacting to that, and your mood is moving because of that.
Client：Yes. Yes. And I mean, to a certain degree, I understand where he's coming from. I mean, I was raised with the understanding that you were born black. That's one strike. You were born male. That's two strikes. A criminal arrest record, that's it. Life is over. So to a certain degree, his perception is reality. So I can't disagree with him. But at the same time, this is my job. And I'm having a very difficult time trying to give this kidde any glimpse of hope, which I don't even think he really wants.
Counselor：So it's hard for you to give the hope, and I'm sure he's looking for the hope. And you can understand his situation in terms of being african american, being male and having the criminal record and how that seems to stack the deck severely against him.
Client：Severely, yeah. And that's nothing. I mean, there's some truth to that. I don't know. That criminal arrest record, a conviction in this country pretty much relegates you to a certain level of society, in my.
Counselor：Opinion, in terms of employment opportunities.
Client：In terms of employment opportunity and things like that. So to a certain degree, I understand where he's coming from. It's just an absolute sense of hopelessness that comes from this kid. He'll sit in front of me and he'll just laugh. He'll laugh about it like, Mister D, this is my life. Why are you tripping? Why do you care so much? So I'm just starting not to carry.
Counselor：So you're starting to mirror that approach, the approach he's using.
Client：Yes, I am.
Counselor：So what's bothering you in all this? Not only the circumstances, the racism, the discrimination, the circumstances in with the criminal record, that all bothers you, but also you're bothered because you're losing hope for him.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And for others like him.
Client：Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：Have you expressed that thought? Sentiment?
Client：No, I haven't. Not in so many words. Not, you know, because to do that, I think, gives the kid credibility. I don't want to increase to his way of thinking if I, you know, agree with him on doing that, giving him a license to be an asshole, so to speak.
Counselor：You don't want to let on that his loss of hope is really. You kind of share that, in a way. You get it. You understand that.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：His lack of hope is grounded in a lot of reality.
Client：Yes, exactly.
Counselor：At the same time, you do this work every day. Do you believe there's hope at some level?
Client：Absolutely. I do believe at my core, I do believe there is hope at some level. I believe in resilience. I think once you tap into it, you can pretty much achieve anything. But it's just hard to peel back so many different layers with this particular generation of kids. It really takes a lot out of you.
Counselor：It's hard to get through.
Client：Hard to get through. Hard to penetrate that shell. So I leave work someday saying, I'm not coming back. We've had enough, you know, and it's depressing after all.
Counselor：So let's go back to that automatic thought. When a youth like the one that you were talking about makes a statement like, you know, their life is essentially defined in this and these narrow parameters, drug dealing and maybe other criminality or other behaviors that aren't productive, and you're kind of thinking there's some truth to that and you're kind of thinking there may not be hope. That's kind of the automatic thoughts or something close to the automatic thoughts. You're having much?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Your reaction to that is to not help them or to not say what you feel to them. What's going on?
Client：I don't want to say what I feel because I think they don't possess the filter to be able to understand it, to understand it. So I think for them it's going to be a license to continue the behavior. So I just hit them bullshit for half an hour, 45 minutes. Because what I really want to say, I don't think it would be beneficial to him.
Counselor：Partially because of the message, but partially because of how they would interpret the message.
Client：Very good.
Counselor：There's two levels to that.
Client：Right? That's how they would interpret the message. I think the message is, you know, for the right person with the right kind of filter would be receivable. But I think how they interpret it is going to be the issue.
Counselor：Right. So what is the message? Tell me what you would want to say to them.
Client：That all this, that what you said is real, that, you know, with a criminal arrest record, you know, your circumstances growing up in the city, broken homes, racism. It's real. But at the same time, somebody else made it before you, someone else went through this and someone else made it out. So if that was the case, I wouldn't be sitting in course with you. I came from the inner city, broken homes, the same scenario. So if that were the case for all of us, then how in the hell am I sitting in? Course, I'm no different. There's nothing special about me. I wasn't an a student to get scholarships. So there has to be some quality that we tap into to really sort of center us, you know, as we go, as we go along. That's what I would like to say to them, but I'm just not too sure how it would be this evening.
Counselor：So your concern seems to be that they would hear the first part but not really the second part. So they hear that their concerns are understandable and they've had circumstances stacked against them. They would hear that, yes, but not so much. There's a way to make it out, or there's hope.
Client：Exactly. Exactly. And I would be devastated by that. Mister Don said that I'm right. I didn't get the job because I'm black. I'm right because I didn't. You know, my situation is what it is. Cause of racism. Mister Don. Mister Don said I wouldn't want that. It would taunt the reputation, probably hurt my employment here. So, you know, I bite my tongue.
Counselor：Is there a way to deliver your message, kind of with the same realism and heart, without including a piece that you feel like they could latch onto? It would be negative.
Client：Is there a way? Did you hear the message? Maybe if I switched it around and I put the last part first.
Counselor：I don't know.
Client：I'm just brainstorming here. Maybe I don't tell them at all. Maybe I just. I make reference and have them come to the same conclusion.
Counselor：Give them all the tools to figure it out.
Client：Figure it out for themselves. Well, if that's the case, then how did this happen? Okay, so if that's the case, if you're saying. If what you're saying is true, then how does this happen? How does this person.
Counselor：Ask them to explain your success?
Client：My success is someone else's success who came from the same neighborhood. How do you explain that same scenario? I think that might be a better way of taking this thing out of it, so to speak.
Counselor：So if that's the new message, how likely do you think you'd be able to deliver that message if somebody told you that they wanted to continue in an unproductive lifestyle?
Client：I think it would work. I think the problem for me is I gotta buy into it first.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：I think that's the issue. I really gotta buy into it because I really inundated so much negativity that I'm starting to believe the hype, so to speak. So before I can, you know how kids are, they know right away. You know, if you're bullshitting, they go right away.
Counselor：So you feel like you need to be more genuine in your acceptance of your message before you can effectively deliver that message. Because if there's a non authentic portion of that, they're gonna. They're gonna find that.
Client：They're gonna find it, and they're gonna exploit it.
Counselor：So this is really, part of this is really about you losing some hope?
Client：Yes, it is. Yeah.
Counselor：So what's your belief about their realities? Like these? Use that. You see, if you really kind of unfiltered your belief about their chances of success.
Client：I think they are very adaptable. I think their survival methods are unbelievable. But I do think they are missing some real key, just some key life skills that are going to keep them locked out and locked into their situation. One kid said to me, he said, they released me from prison, but I'm still a handcuff to the system. Oh, he's right.
Counselor：You could see his point.
Client：I can see his point. Like, yeah, you're pretty much right because it's a mindset that although you're out of prison mentally, you're still incarcerated. And I can't pull him out of that mindset. And that's so frustrating. Here's a kid that's intelligent, but he still thinks like he's in prison. He still believes that this all happens to him because he's black. And that message is reinforced by the people he's around. So it's not just him. That's the way his boys think. That's probably the way his moms think because it's easier. It's easier to think, well, it's societies. There's no personal responsibility and that's a very unpopular message to have.
Counselor：So the youth that you work with, they've been exposed to an unpopular message, a tough message, one that permeates. It's all around them. They're exposed to, it permeates them. But there's a part of you that really appreciates their adaptability and their survival skills.
Client：Yeah, yeah. I think I said to one cat that, you know, you guys remind me of like, you know, soldiers, you're like just numb to the pain. Whatever happens, you're just numb to the pain. Just keep moving forward, just keep moving it, you know? But the hardest part now is to get them to come out of that survival, and it's depressing. I don't think the other counselors at the center see it or if they're just becoming immune like me, I'm becoming more like them, you know, just becoming heartless, realizing, okay, this is just a job. So I'll come here and do my 8 hours and leave.
Counselor：Worried that exposure to this environment just makes you a certain way, makes you disconnected from really trying to find solutions or believing solutions are possible. When you say move out of survival mode, the survival characteristics, you admire that. What do they need to do? How do they need to move out of survival mode? What's the next mode?
Client：I think the next mode is accepting the reality of where they are. This is my reality and it's not going to change unless I take some accountability. It's not going to change. And I think that's the hardest transition for them to make. So these things survival, I call it the growth. Survival. There's survival and there's growth. So how do you go beyond your circumstances? You know, how do you rise above your circumstances?
Counselor：So I have to accept my reality.
Client：And move forward except it for what it is. This is real. Racism is real. Poverty is real. Yeah, my mother said, dope fiend, and she's in jail. This is real. But how do I move beyond this now? This is what it is and I'm realizing it. How do I move beyond this to the next stage of my development?
Counselor：So in a similar way, what you're dealing with from your position is the solution the same? Do you need to accept the reality of your work environment and who you're working with and what they're going through?
Client：Yeah, I think you're right. I think the same. The same solution applies to me. Probably the dose of my own medicine in that regard.
Counselor：So let's look at these thoughts. And I want to give you something to work on between the session and next session. Specifically, I want to really go after the micro level. At this moment when you're with the youth and they tell you something that's kind of triggering that automatic thought, that generally saying hope is lost. It's a kind of self defeating thought. What's something. What's a thought that you could consciously think like self talk that you could introduce at that moment and that automatic thought of it's hopeless. Just to simplify, it's hopeless. What could you say to yourself at that moment to challenge that thought?
Client：That's a good question. What could I say at that moment to alter my thinking? Talking about the kid, not me with the kid. I don't know. God makes no mistakes. God makes no mistakes. So it has to be one. There has to be redeemable quality in this human being sitting in front of it. It just has to be. I'm just not looking. Am I looking close enough? But there has to be some characteristic in this kid that I can find, that I can build on.
Counselor：So you think to yourself, you have a few things there. So you think to yourself, I can see their point of view. In a way, it's really hopeless, but there's got to be a way, something. There's got to be something in them that you can latch on to.
Client：Yeah, that may not look like what I think it should. It may not mean this kid ends up at Howard University on a full ride. Maybe it just means the kid doesn't go to jail. You know, maybe he starts smoking weed for 24 hours. So maybe I need to manage my expectations better than that happening.
Counselor：Okay, so set some goals that you feel are realistic.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So as you so think about, you have that thought. If I can see the point of view, I can see where they think it's hopeless. Maybe it's hopeless. And you have this adaptive response of, there's something in there that's redeemable. How do you think that could change your reaction to that automatic thought?
Client：I think it would. I think it would brighten my mood a little bit in terms of my disposition. I think it would brighten. I think I'd be a little bit more charismatic about the job than I have been. Because you're right. I have seen, I have noticed just a thought process that just puts me into a funk before lunchtime. So maybe this is that way of.
Counselor：Interrupting thought process, and that's exactly what you want to do. You had that automatic thought. It leads to that reaction, which in your case, is kind of not doing what you feel you should be doing and you want to disrupt that self talk. So do you think you can practice that self talk in the week between I see you again?
Client：Absolutely.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So if you could apply that as often as you have that primatic thought. And remember, sometimes we don't catch the thought. We catch the feeling. So maybe it's like a heaviness or a sadness that you kind of feel, and you might realize, oh, I just had that thought of it's hopeless. That might be easier to catch than the actual thought coming through your mind. Over time, as you practice, you'll get better at picking up on the thought. But just be aware. You can catch the thought or the feeling that can bring you back there. And that's when you apply that self talk. So if you could give that a try, and I don't know how easy or difficult it might be at work to document what happens, if you could just make a quick note of, like, what that thought was and that you applied that response and then look at the outcome. So it's those three things. What the thought is, the fact that you applied the response and what happened.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：I like that. Sometimes as you apply the response, you might get a perfect, desirable reaction. Sometimes it might not work as well, but keep doing it and keep making a note of that. And when I see you again, we'll look at those results. So we'll keep building on this.
Client：Great. Thanks a lot.
Counselor：Thanks, Andrew.