Counselor：Hi, Victoria. How you doing today?
Client：Pretty good.
Counselor：Very good. How has the anxiety been around the germs?
Client：I still catch myself, like, double, almost like double touching. Like going to touch it and then reeling back. So I'm starting to notice it, but I still, I still have that anxiety. I still don't want to touch it.
Counselor：When you pretty much touch anything you might think has germs on it.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：What are some things that you've touched in the last, between the last session and this session that have distressed you?
Client：Well, I had to go to the store, which is always a nightmare for me because I don't even like touching my credit card because it's been in so many machines and there's so much dirt and junk that gets in there and then the counters and all the. I keep thinking about the food that's there, and I, you know, if I pick it up off the shelf, how many people have picked it up with their nasty hands or kids picked it up with nasty hands and then put it back, and it's like, I need to eat. But shopping's a nightmare for me.
Counselor：So really, in a, like, a supermarket, everything can be containing germs. Have germs on it?
Client：Yeah, everything does.
Counselor：Everything does. And that's what you're thinking about as you're walking through and shopping. We talked about last time, exposure and response prevention, and I explained kind of the general idea. But you remember that conversation. Yeah, I remember. I indicated that we might try some experiments right in session to see how, see if we can move kind of forward and treating your, kind of your fear and obsession with germs and really the anxiety it's causing for you, it's like getting in the way of your life.
Client：It is. It really is.
Counselor：So I was wondering, is there anything in here, in this office, as you look around, that you would look at and think, I don't want to touch that because it could have germs on it.
Client：I'm really not liking the covers on this chair because, I mean, I can't. I mean, at least what I'm sitting in now, my clothes are protecting me from the rest of the chair.
Counselor：Mm hmm.
Client：But, I mean, I have no sleeves on, so I don't like touching the armrests and the covers.
Counselor：So even thinking about, like, your arms touching the back of the chair, and.
Client：I'm not liking it, I really feel like I should probably go wash my arms.
Counselor：So what would happen if you put your hands right on the arm covers? What was your usual reaction to that?
Client：To go wash my arms until I feel like it's gone. Until all the dirt is gone.
Counselor：And how long would that take you to be sure?
Client：I mean, something like this, probably. I'd probably be in there for a good 510 minutes. Just washing.
Counselor：510 minutes. How many times a day would you end up washing your hands?
Client：Okay. I don't. I don't keep track anymore. It makes me upset. How many?
Counselor：It says that it's that many. That is distressing. And I know that this will be uncomfortable, but I would like you to try to. If you can feel comfortable with it, put your hands on the. On the arms of the chairs. On the chair. Let's see what I'm doing. It's like. Try to stay like that. So tell me what's going through your mind?
Client：I can just. I feel the chair, and I. I don't like it. And I just. I feel almost like I can feel everybody who's ever touched it. And just what have they been doing? And what did they touch before they touched this? They probably didn't wash their hands before they touched this, and it's just really making me comfortable.
Counselor：Okay, so you're anxious now?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Is it tolerable?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So once you remember, we talked about scaling before. So, like, ten being a tremendous amount of anxiety, one being hardly any anxiety. Where. Where are you now as you sit here with your hands?
Client：What am I going to say about six or seven?
Counselor：Six or seven?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Are you feeling an urge to go wash your hands?
Client：Yes. Yes, I am.
Counselor：Yes. This is a six or seven. I want you to sit with it for a few seconds, process that, you know, feeling. Right. That you're touching everybody that's ever been in the chair. Right. So consider that thought.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：So what's the ultimate fear? Like, what's gonna happen if you don't go wash your hands now?
Client：I'm gonna get sick.
Counselor：You're gonna get sick that someone who's.
Client：Been in this chair was sick or touched something gross that can make you sick. And I'm gonna get sick, and I'm gonna die, and I don't want to die.
Counselor：Do you feel yourself getting sick?
Client：I feel like it's harder to breathe, I guess. Like, my chest is kind of just tight. Yeah.
Counselor：You can still breathe, though.
Client：I can't. I can breathe.
Counselor：Okay, so go ahead and lift your hands up. Right. And just put them where you'd normally put them. Well, now that you've touched the chair, I know that now I can still. Is that any better? Now you're touching the seat of the.
Client：Chair, but I feel like if I touch my clothes, that's even worse. Yeah. Now I will have to go home and change my clothes.
Counselor：All right, so the thought now, if I had to guess, correct me if I'm wrong, it's probably like you really would like to wash your hands.
Client：Very much so.
Counselor：And you certainly can at any time. But I'd like you to try to hold out for a little bit. So your hands where they are now, that's better than up here.
Client：At this point. I feel like they're already contaminated, so.
Counselor：They'Re at maximum contamination.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So you can't do any more damage by touching the seat.
Client：Yeah, I'm just trying to avoid touching anything else.
Counselor：So now it's not so much about getting your hands away from the arms, but getting them under the faucet. Yeah, that's the. So where's anxiety? Was a six or seven before. Where is it now?
Client：I mean, now that you mention it, it is. It is a little better. I want to say about four. About three, four. I mean, I feel better that my. My arms are off it, and I'm focusing on breathing, and, I mean, it's.
Counselor：A little easier to breathe now.
Client：A little. Yeah, it is.
Counselor：So if you could go. If you could wash your hands right this second. Of course you can. But if you did, what would the anxiety move to?
Client：A one.
Counselor：A one.
Client：I mean, it would take a little bit to get to a one. A little bit actually washing, but then it'll get to a one. Then I'll feel okay.
Counselor：All right, so you move from just in a short time, from a six or seven to a three or four for anxiety, when, of course, the goal was one. Right. So you could say roughly halfway. Roughly halfway down toward your goal without washing your hands at all.
Client：Oh, wow. I didn't consider that.
Counselor：So are you doing okay? You're holding up okay. All right, so this is what I want you to do. Before you go wash your hands, I want to use this moment to give you some ideas for the next few weeks. When you touch something that causes you to feel like the germs are on your hands. Chairs, whatever it is, I want you to try progressively to wait more and more time between that event. Like when you feel that urge when you actually wash your hands.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：I mean, you have to wash your hands at some point, right. You're gonna wash them at some point. That's normal. I'm asking, try to delay that.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：I try to try to stall and not wash them immediately.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Okay. Kind of, you know, eventually, when you get to the point where you can. You can wash them when you choose to. Cause right now, like, the germs are kind of dictating when I wash them, right? I mean, the way you're thinking about the germs is really laying down the rules, and I want to give you some more control over it. So where's the anxiety right now?
Client：I mean, as we keep talking, I feel like it's at two.
Counselor：At two.
Client：I'd still like to go wash my hands. I would feel better if I did, but I don't feel that, you know, overwhelming anxiety anymore.
Counselor：And no trouble breathing or.
Client：Actually, I haven't even thought about that in a while.
Counselor：There's still that urge to wash your hands. It's there, which is understandable. All right, so why don't you go wash your hands now? You come back, I'll talk about the homework again. Right. With your anxiety just a little lower here, too. You can only really get one, one level lower. One. And we'll kind of review that again, and we'll lay down very structured amounts of time between when you touch something, when you wash your hands.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：All right. So go ahead and take care of that now. And then we'll pick up there when we.
Client：Okay, thank you.
Counselor：Thanks.