Counselor：Hi, Janice. How are you doing today?
Client：Good. I'm good. How are you?
Counselor：I'm good. I'm really impressed that you came back for a second session.
Client：Oh, no, I'm really glad to, I'm really glad to come back because meeting with you last week really helped me to really think about why I want to do this. So I'm really happy to be back. Yeah.
Counselor：Good. Good. So as we met last week, we talked about a few things. And to recap, we talked about alcohol dependency, anxiety, feelings of hopelessness and failure and the impact that alcoholism has had on you and your ability to perform your schoolwork.
Client：Yeah. Yeah. I really want to work on my addiction and I feel like it's really effective, my schoolwork.
Counselor：So how has the last week been there for you?
Client：Um, last week, I think, um, I was thinking about what we talked about last week and I try to, you know, think about some things I want to work on and so it was better than before, but I still had a difficult time managing my work and my time and. Yeah.
Counselor：So have you, did you have any drinks last week?
Client：I had a couple of drinks, yeah, I went out with my friend a couple of times and even at home, you know, I felt kind of anxious because deadlines are coming up and my assignments are coming up, so I feel really anxious. So, yeah, I had a couple of drinks at home by myself.
Counselor：Good. So one of the things that we talked about was meeting with your professor or sending out an email to tell them how you, you need some assistance in completing your work because you have missed a lot of days from school.
Client：Yeah. Yeah, yeah. So I actually talked to my professor and asked him if I could get any extra help and he suggested to kind of reach out to the tutoring center that they, they have on campus. So I email them and I'm in the process of setting up some time where I could get extra help. And I'm also talking with my tas to meet for office hours.
Counselor：That's great. That's awesome. And I think that's part of your goals that you've already achieved.
Client：Yeah. Yeah. So I'm really glad that we were able to talk last week because that really helped me to kind of plan ahead.
Counselor：Yeah, that's good. That's good. So let's talk about a little bit more of the schoolwork and the anxiety that you experienced during that time. So you said that whenever those schoolwork accumulates, you find yourself getting anxious and resolving to drinking. And you mentioned that you've been out a few times last week. Yeah. So in terms of anxiety, one of the things I've used with my clients when they experience anxiety, it's kind of a relaxation tool that will help them to stop and relax and get their focus back and come back and be able to complete whatever activity that they working on. So what stop is it really? It's a point for you to reflect.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：So from the time you start experiencing the anxiety, you stop. You put everything down, put all the papers, push them aside, and you just take a deep breath, breath in, and you breathe out. You could do it a few times and really reflect on what you want to achieve and how your feelings are impacting the way that you accomplish those goals. So you need to complete your assignment, but being anxious, you get worked up, and you cannot finish those assignments. So what this activity does is help you to relax. You can practice breathing techniques. You could put your arms on the, like, put your arms under your legs, or you could practice just stretching. Whenever you feel worked out, you could do it to the back, and that really helps to calm the nerves in the body and help you to relax a little bit. And then you can really gain your focus and come back to look at whatever you were doing, whatever assignment that you were trying to complete. So you could do this exercise as often as you feel any type of anxiety coming on. And I think that would really help to, like, relax.
Client：Yeah, I think it's gonna help.
Counselor：Breathing exercise, especially the stretching, will get you, when you get worked up to, you know, like, take out all the tension in your body.
Client：Yeah, yeah.
Counselor：So another thing we could touch on now that we've talked about an activity or something you can do to relieve anxiety, another thing I see that's been affecting you is the expectations from your family.
Client：Yeah. I mean, they really want me to do well, but whenever I feel like I'm, like, I don't pass my classes, I just fail one of the tests, and I just feel like I'm a failure. And I don't want to be a failure. I don't want to do that to my parents.
Counselor：I know that's a big expectation for you, to have that placed on you and knowing that if you fail that you will bring disappointment to your family.
Client：And, like, if I fail the school, that I'm just gonna fail for my life. I don't know what to do.
Counselor：So do you think that's positive thinking? Do you think that is true?
Client：I mean, I'm not going to fail my life, but I just feel like, you know, I'm a failure because I cannot even finish school.
Counselor：So let's try to restructure that thinking because I think probably that thinking is 40, so probably to think of it in another way. Okay, how about you try thinking about times that you've been successful?
Client：Hmm? Yeah, actually I, well, until last semester I did pretty well in my classes. And so far it's just this last semester I just have a lot of things to do. But so far I did pretty well and I'm pretty involved in school and I am involved in student council, so I do a lot of activities and you know, I work too, so. And people, people like me, I think so, yeah.
Counselor：So that's good. You have a lot of things here that you should be positive about, especially being part of an organization, being part of student council. It shows that you're responsible and you're capable of handling your task. So what really is taking the best of you is like the last semester and I being overwhelmed with the papers that are coming to you. So I think thinking positive about being capable and using positive self talk and telling yourself that you're able to complete your assignments, you have done this before and you've been reliable and responsible. So using those things, at least try using them throughout the day to motivate you to keep up the good work and believe in yourself that you can complete your assignments. And you know, just take the focus of the negative thinking and think positive about yourself and think positive that you will complete your assignments because you've done it before and you're capable of doing it again. So I think that would work for you. Probably using that as a tool.
Client：Yeah, yeah.
Counselor：And we also mentioned about quitting. I think that's one of your top goals you already discussed.
Client：Yeah, I wanted to stop thinking.
Counselor：Yeah. So I think stopping can be dangerous sometimes. I'll more likely influence you to think of it as minimizing your drinking and dealing with all the soft goals. And then I think that would really help you. And another way to do that is I found this agency that started a clinic that I have researched as we talked about the last time, and they're starting a session next Saturday at twelve.
Client：How does that look for you to schedule next Saturday? I think, I think at twelve I think I can make it. Yeah.
Counselor：So we have the intake form, so what we could do, we could fill that out and I could call and make the appointments for you. And it is a, it is a five session, it's within a group. So you have other people who also struggle in dependency. So you get to meet with others and talk about your feelings and probably that would help you to cope with it and find ways to deal with that. How is that?
Client：Yeah, I like that.
Counselor：So good. I glad that we're making some steps. So what we've discussed overall, just to do a recap, we talked about the, the school, like reaching out to your professors and you said that worked for you. We talked about the techniques, the coping skills. You could do some breathing techniques or exercise and stretching and also the clinic dependency clinic that's setting up. So I think we on a good start.
Client：Yeah, I'm excited to start the therapy and I'll definitely try the stop method that you're telling me about.
Counselor：That's good. All right.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Nice meeting you again.
Client：See you next week. Okay, bye. Hi, Janice. Hi. Welcome back.
Counselor：Thank you.
Client：It's really good to see you again. I'm really glad that you're able to come back this time.
Counselor：Yeah, I really want to do this and I thought about it and I think that in order to reach my goals I need to participate and do something about it. And I'm glad that you going to help me.
Client：Okay. I'm here to help you. I'm really glad that you're able to really make your time and come.
Counselor：Thank you.
Client：So today what we're going to do is you shared with me last time how you are feeling anxious about not being able to finish school because of your alcohol dependency. Am I correct?
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：Okay. So how was that for the last, last week after we met? Yeah.
Counselor：I've been drinking a lot because I've accumulated a lot of papers. I work full time and I really don't have the time to do my assignment. So whenever I feel overwhelmed I just want to feel better and relax. So I have a few drinks, probably too many, and try to resume assignments. And then I find myself not going to class because I just can't make it and my assignments are not complete. So I just feel like hopeless and I drink some more in the mornings and that's just my days.
Client：So it sounds like you're not able to finish a lot of work because of the stress, but at the same time, whenever you try to cope with that stress and drink, that also makes you not be able to go to class and that just cycle, just repeats.
Counselor：Yeah, that's exactly my problem.
Client：Yeah. Okay. So, you know, it sounds like a lot, you work full time and you have a lot of courses especially this is your last semester. I'm sure you have a lot things that are due. So how do you, how do you keep up with all this work. Do you have, like, a planner? Do you have a calendar that you use? How do you. How do you manage all.
Counselor：I have a planner, but I don't really use it. I put everything down in that planner, but I just never get to it.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Every time I look at it, it's just a bunch of work that needs to be completed and just can't get done.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：So.
Client：So you know, what's are done, but it just. You just need to prioritize.
Counselor：Yeah, I think that's one of my problems.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Prioritizing which ones that needs to be done immediately, the due dates, and keeping up to date with that. Not just, you know, just.
Client：Just doing it.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：Okay, so how about. How about this? Next time that we meet, I want you to kind of get in the habit of writing your assignments down according to the due date so that, you know, we have a clear idea of what to expect for the next days or next two days so that you're not overwhelmed with all the things that you do. How about. How's that sound?
Counselor：That sounds good.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：I haven't tried that.
Client：Yeah. Before.
Counselor：I think that would be good.
Client：Right. So by kind of listing out what things are due in next two days or next three days, you know, what to expect so that you feel more control of your time and your assignments. Yeah, I think we could try that.
Counselor：I think trying. That would probably help me a lot.
Client：Okay. Okay. Yeah. I'm glad to hear that you're open to that idea. And also going forward, you also. We talked about last week about asking for professor for help. How did that go?
Counselor：Well, that went well. My professor actually reached out.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：And have extended some of my assignments. So that's really. Yeah. So I'm happy about that. But I still have to complete them.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So this. I still feel a lot of anxiety.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Because one of my problems was that I missed a lot of classes, and I really don't know what I should be doing. And I think that's the worst of my problems, like, not being able to understand the material and, you know, do an effective paper. So I'm pretty anxious about that.
Client：But, I mean, you missed the class, but from now on, you have more opportunity to make up for the courses through the tutoring help. And.
Counselor：Yeah, my professors have given me that time to actually make up so I could come to tutoring and that's helpful. So I could catch up a bit on the work that I've missed.
Client：Okay. And when is that gonna start?
Counselor：He's told me you see, that's my problem. I can't remember things.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：I think it's next week.
Client：Next week? Okay.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：Okay. So when you're writing down your, all the things that you need to do, I think if you include going to a training session, it will definitely help you to come to catch all your assignments.
Counselor：I think that planner would really work for me.
Client：Yeah. And you remember, you remember to talk to your professor, which is a good sign that you are getting things done in your list.
Counselor：Yeah, that's a start because I really want to finish. And I think that's one of my biggest goals, to finish. Apart from alcohol dependency, I would really like to finish my schoolwork.
Client：And what, what makes you, how does it make you feel when you do not complete something or when you, you're afraid that you're not gonna finish school? And how does that make you feel? I feel.
Counselor：I feel very hopeless because my family have a lot of expectations and not being able to meet those expectations are depressing. And I feel hopeless. Sometimes I just feel like I can't. I just can't do it. And those expectations, I think are getting the best of me. So when I sit down and I think about those assignments and I just think about doing good with not concentrating on what I need to get done or just doing good with that expectation that you have to do good, you have to finish school. And I think that's just depressing. It makes me feel I just can't do it.
Client：So it sounds like whenever you have a lot of things to do, a lot of things to do on your face, then you know, all those things make you anxious.
Counselor：Yes.
Client：And feel hopelessness, feel overwhelmed and start.
Counselor：Getting the feeling and the cravings of drinking.
Client：Right. And that causes to crave in alcohol. And I want you to kind of see that pattern, how it goes. And so if you could kind of start another technique that kind of change your thoughts and your reaction. So what I suggest is, how about we start like a journal. So whenever you feel anxious, or whenever you feel you have a lot of things that you need to do and that resource you to drink when you're drinking or go to resort to alcohol, I want to kind of write down your thoughts and your feelings whenever you have those cravings.
Counselor：Do I do that? Like in the, like in the midst of thinking or after the day or at the end of the day?
Client：I think whenever you have that cravings.
Counselor：Whenever you just write it down.
Client：Yeah. Whenever you have the think of, oh, I wanna have some drink. And kind of, I want you to kind of think about what makes you want to have a drinking.
Counselor：So I bring. I do this on a daily basis or just on.
Client：Yeah. Whenever you have a cravings, it's up to you. Whatever that makes you feel comfortable. I'm sure it's really hard to begin in the first, in the beginning to start journal and remembering all the journals. But I think, yeah. Just kind of writing down your feelings and thoughts.
Counselor：Sometimes I get so stunned. I don't remember anything. Yeah, I don't think I remember journaling.
Client：Right. So if you forget it, that's fine. But I think for you to kind of be aware of, you know, your thoughts, your thought process, and how, what. What makes you really go to alcohol. And also, another thing we mentioned last time was that you're interested in group therapy. Are you still interested in that?
Counselor：Oh, yes, I am.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：I really like to meet with, because you told me from the last time, it's group sessions with individual that are suffering from alcohol dependency. So I really like to share that atmosphere with others and be able to relate and be able to. For someone to be able to understand what I'm going through.
Client：Yeah. So I researched some of resources that you could attend for the group therapy. There's a alcohol dependency clinic right down the street, and I found out that they have Saturday classes. I think the time was at 12:00 p.m. did you be able to make on Saturdays at 12:00 p.m. for the session?
Counselor：Yeah, Saturdays at 1212. I think I'll be able to make it because I start work later in the evening, so. And how long is the session?
Client：It's about hour. An hour? Yeah, hour.
Counselor：It's about an hour. And you said it's near campus?
Client：It's right down the street, yes. Okay.
Counselor：Yeah, I think that would. That would work out pretty fine.
Client：Great. Great. We actually have intake form in the front of our desk, so after this session, I could help you fill out those intake forms, and then we could enroll you in those therapies to start right away. How about that?
Counselor：Yeah, I really like to start that right away because I really like to deal with that right now because I have my papers that do in the next three weeks. So the faster I get involved, I think it's the better that it will work out for me.
Client：Yeah. So I think, yeah, this will really help you kind of discuss your feelings and your thoughts on what's going on and to have that support system since you're away from home, if your social support might be lacking. But I think this would be a good way to kind of start building those networks and communities.
Counselor：Yeah. Well, thank you so much for your help.
Client：Yeah. So we'll meet next week again, just kind of discuss about what we want to do next. So thank you for coming, and we'll see you again. All right.
Counselor：Thank you.
Client：Thank you.