Counselor：Hi, Jean. How are you?
Client：I'm good.
Counselor：So this is the second time that we've seen each other. Right. You came in for the initial assessment about a week ago now, I think, and I got to know you and your history and kind of the symptoms that you've been dealing with, and it seems like you've been struggling with depression. Is that. Does that sound right?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Yeah. So between, you know, last time you were here and now, did anything come up, anything positive, anything challenging?
Client：Yes. When I try to pull weeds, it just takes me forever in my garden, and then I have to come in and sit down, and then I just don't understand why I can't do it like I used to, and it's frustrating.
Counselor：Okay. So is that. That's related to the medical issues that.
Client：Yes. I have arthritis in my knees and my back.
Counselor：How long has that been going on for?
Client：Oh, really bad for the last, like three years. So.
Counselor：And that's been kind of a difficult adjustment. You were really active before, right?
Client：Yes. I could do all my gardening one day and not have to stop. And now I have to stop. And it's.
Counselor：So what do you think about all that?
Client：I hate it. It's like, why? Why can't I do it? You know?
Counselor：Yeah. Yeah. Well, it is. It's a big difference when you are, you know, not experiencing physical pain and you can do all these things that you enjoy and then something happens, you know, as we're getting older, it always does. So, yeah, it can definitely present a lot of challenges. Anything else happened in the last week?
Client：Well, I've been wanting. I need to go walking more often, and I just can't. It just bothers me, my knees and. And I get frustrated because I can't do that and.
Counselor：Okay. And then, you know, when you get frustrated and you can't do something, what do you do after that?
Client：I, um, just sit there and usually get up and eat something, and that's not good for me when I'm trying to lose weight. So then.
Counselor：Oh, I see. So it's kind of like a cycle. You want to do good things for your health and exercise, but it's been challenging because of your medical issues. And then it kind of leads you to overeating, which is kind of counterintuitive to your goals.
Client：Right. It's like, why. Why am I eating this?
Counselor：Well, you may have noticed that I ask a lot of questions about what you think about things and how you feel about things. You know, in the first session you came in, and then today I just kind of wanted to point out how cognitive behavioral therapy works. That's the kind of therapy that I actually do and will be using together to kind of hopefully help you get through this time to where you feel like there's some improvement in your mood and how you're feeling. So let me just start by drawing a little diagram using an example that we just talked about together. So say a situation comes up like, you go to pull the weeds in the garden. I'm going to write pull the weeds in the garden. And then you said you were able to do it, but for a short period of time before pain kind of got in the way. Right. And then when that pain got in the way, what was the thought that you had?
Client：It's like, why do I have this pain? Why? Before, I never did. I should be able to do this, but I can't.
Counselor：Okay. So I got, you know, why do I have this pain? And I should be able to do this. So then after you had that thought, what did you feel? What emotions came up for you?
Client：Frustrated, sad, and I get anxious.
Counselor：Okay. And then after you felt those things, the frustrated, sad, and anxious, that's when.
Client：I would eat the ice cream.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：Our sweets, candy, whatever.
Counselor：Okay. So I kind of put this in a model to show you how cognitive behavioral therapy works. So all these different situations happen, and different people see them in different ways. So when you had, you know, this situation come up where you went to go pull the weeds in the garden and you couldn't do it as long as you wanted to, you had this kind of, like, more negative, self critical thought going on. I mean, you were able to go pull some of the weeds even if you weren't able to do as much as you wanted to. But because, you know, you kind of had these negative thoughts, it led you, it affected your emotions, and then in turn, it affected the behaviors that you did afterwards. And what we find in cognitive behavioral therapy is that we have the most control over our thoughts. You know, what we think of an event. Like I mentioned, we could think like, oh, well, you know, at least I was able to do this much. You know, I can give myself a rest. My body's telling me to take a rest, and then I can go back to it again. So that's kind of what our target is going to be. And it all starts with identifying these automatic thoughts that you're having, these quick reactions that are happening in your brain. And it seems very simple, but it is, you know, challenging to do. So that's what we're going to start off working on. Did that all make sense?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Okay, good. So I have this worksheet here that you can take with you and we'll get going on our first step in working together. So right here there's a lot of columns, but I really only want you to worry about the first three columns. And this is going to get you tracking what automatic thoughts are coming up for you. So we've got date and time, the situation or event that happened, and then automatic thoughts. So maybe we can go through one more because you did mention walking as well, right. That was also a challenge for you. So when was that you were going to go for a walk?
Client：Well, I was going to go yesterday and then I just. I just couldn't because my knees started. I just get out the door and can't even get down the steps sometimes.
Counselor：Oh, that must be difficult.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Right. And then I'm gonna put for the situation. Couldn't go for a walk. Alright. And then do you remember what thoughts you had?
Client：Looks like? Here's another thing I can't do.
Counselor：Okay. Any other thoughts that came into your head?
Client：Just frustrated because I should be able to do this. I always do it. I just used to walk a lot last year, not this year.
Counselor：So I'm gonna write I should be able to do this. And actually when you said, you know, I was frustrated, that's more of what we call an emotion, which is the fourth box. We're not going to worry about that yet. We're just going to focus on identifying those thoughts. Now just keep this somewhere handy and then you can come check in a couple times a day and write down what you can remember. You don't have to be perfect with this. This is just to like, get us started. So does that seem like something that you could do over the next week?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Okay. And where's a good place that you think you could keep this so that you'll remember to do it?
Client：Well, I don't know. I guess I could hang it by the calendar.
Counselor：Okay. Yeah, that's a good place for it. All right. Do you have any questions for me?
Client：No, not really. Just thank you.
Counselor：You're welcome. Yeah. Well, I'm glad that you came in today and that we get to work together as a team towards, you know, improving your health.
Client：Thank you.