Counselor：Any other evidence that points toward you being an imposter
Client：besides my bad grade that I got that? Yeah. Not a whole lot.
Counselor：All right, so it would be safe to say that a lot of that thought of I'm not good enough is kind of based on this, on these feelings of anxiety.
Client：Yeah. Which are really intense. Like panic almost in the moment.
Counselor：Yes. So in a way, you're believing what the anxiety would lead you to believe.
Client：Yeah, definitely.
Counselor：But in the bright light of scrutiny, there aren't a lot of facts to support the worst case, which is you don't deserve it.
Client：Right?
Counselor：Right. How about evidence that refutes that you're not good enough?
Client：I would say that, you know, I was accepted into the program. Like, there's kind of like a pretty rigorous sort of testing and stuff, which I passed to get interviews and such, to get into the program. So I did that. Like I said, I'm a pretty good student, all considering, you know, before this kind of like what's happening.
Counselor：Okay, so you got through a rigorous process to become a student. You're doing well.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：You mentioned before just the one bad grade. Right. Okay, so if, you know, you have friends in this program. Right. If one of them came to you with this balance of one bad grade and some anxiety versus passing rigorous standards and doing well, otherwise, what advice would you give them?
Client：I mean, now that you're kind of, like, talking about it like this or that sort of thing, it makes sense. I would probably say that, well, you seem to be doing pretty well so far. You know, that anyone evaluating would look at all of cumulative, how you're doing, your performance, rather than that of weight.
Counselor：Would you feel comfortable giving that advice to yourself?
Client：I think I try to sometimes, but my anxiety symptoms kind of, like, really, like you were saying, your anxiety tells you sort of. I think I can think that, but I think my anxiety symptoms are such in the moment that it's really hard, you know, and I'm replaying what happened before in my head, anticipation, predicting that it'll happen again.
Counselor：All right, so let's look at. Let's look at the thought and the feeling. If you had to rate the percent that you believed this thought, this belief that you are not good enough to be in the program, like right now.
Client：Right now, yeah.
Counselor：But here with me, how much of your mind believes that that's true?
Client：I would say, like, you know, a two or a three? Like, not very. I don't believe it very much right now because, you know, I'm not presenting and it's just you and I, not like a group full of people. So that's, that pressure is not there here.
Counselor：So right now, you're really not buying the idea that you're not good enough.
Client：Yeah. Correct.
Counselor：So now let's move to, let's say right in the. Near the end of, like, presentation, when that anxiety is there. And the classmates, they could be looking at you, they could be negatively evaluating you. That's what you're worried about. How much do you believe that thought then?
Client：Well, I feel really confident in that moment. It feels very real. Like any moment they're going to kick me out. I, like, I'm just not doing well.
Counselor：It's that bad? Yeah, really intense. So would you. Would you think that you were a more accurate evaluator of what's true or not now or when you're in that state of anxiety?
Client：Definitely now. Now when that anxiety and that, you know, heart rate and sweating is not there.
Counselor：So this evaluation, the percent that you believe that thought is true, this evaluation is more accurate?
Client：Yes, I think so.
Counselor：And how much time in any given day would you spend kind of in a mood you're in now where you can evaluate accurately?
Client：I would say, you know, when I'm not at risk of presenting, like, I feel like I spend the majority of my time, like, it's not something I worry about all the time just leading up to and then mostly that day.
Counselor：Okay, so the. So you're able to evaluate the way you are now, the vast majority of the time.
Client：Right.
Counselor：There's a limited amount of time when you're not. When there's a lot of emotions going through.
Client：Right.
Counselor：And at those times, you're maybe a little less reliable.
Client：Right. Like, my judgment is clouded.
Counselor：However, in that moment, you still. Those beliefs are strong, right?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And troubling. Even though it's a small percentage, it's intense. And you kind of carry that around with you a little bit.
Client：Yeah, exactly.
Counselor：So I can see how this is frustrating for you, right?