Counselor：Tony, you've been given this diagnosis of schizophrenia by one of your doctors. I just wondered what it's like for you and what the main problems are.
Client：The main problem is these. Well, they tell me that it's a problem to do with musketsophrenia. These voices, they come and they. I heard these people talking about me and talking about how rubbish I am and what a failure I am, and I really just wish they'd leave me alone.
Counselor：Yes, that's extremely negative content to what's being said. So it's a clear voice outside of your head, is it?
Client：Yeah, yeah, it's two voices. And, you know, sometimes they're talking to me and sometimes they're talking about me, but it's always really negative. There's no helpful things there at all.
Counselor：It sounds like these voices are associated with a feeling of sadness. Am I getting that right or is that another feeling?
Client：Oh, well, when I let them, they get me really down. They get me really, really down. But, you know, I'm fighting these. Fighting them still, you know.
Counselor：What are you doing to fight?
Client：Well, there's where I get into a real problem, because I shout back at them. And, you know, my neighbors, they. Well, you know, they don't understand and they say they don't hear these voices. Sometimes I wonder if my neighbors are in on it as well, but, you know, they say that they can't hear them, but I don't understand how they can't hear them because they're so loud.
Counselor：So loud.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：What do you make of these voices, then? Do you think it's part of an illness, or do you think the neighbors are doing it? Or what do you think?
Client：Well, you know, I think there was somebody once that I really didn't get on with at school, and I think it's him. And I think he's kind of got these people to be kind of harassing me. I think they're trying to drive me mad, I think, is what they're trying to do.
Counselor：That's a very distressing experience. I can understand that. So do you think other people can hear them if they're very loud?
Client：Well, you know what? They say they can't, but that makes me wonder if they know what they're. If maybe they're on it. But everybody says that they can't. And, you know, I don't know. I've tried my CPN said, you know, why don't I put a recorder on, you know, when the voices are there and, you know, it didn't pick them up, but I don't know. Maybe it was faulty or something. It just nobody else can hear them, I guess, is the answer to your question. Or everybody says they can't.
Counselor：Even with the tape recorder, you still don't think. Well, you think other people maybe can see them, hear them?
Client：Well, sometimes I think people can hear them, and sometimes I think, you know, well, maybe my CPN's right. Maybe it's my imagination.
Counselor：So is it just you that hears voices, or do other people in society hear voices, Tony?
Client：Well, there's somebody else at the day center, and he hears voices that other people can't hear. And we've talked together, and I can't hear the voices that he's hearing.
Counselor：That's interesting, isn't it?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And I wonder if there's certain types of stress which can make anybody hear a voice. Have you ever heard of that kind of a thing? No, because quite often, soldiers coming back from the war will be hearing the sounds of battle, gunfire and helicopters, etcetera. So they're not actually there, but they hear them as if they're real, and it's linked to the stress of being in a war. Do you ever find that your own voices are worse if you're not getting asleep, if you're sleeping really badly?
Client：Definitely, definitely. What I find is that sometimes when I get really worried about what they're doing to me, and I think, well, maybe I'll stay up just in case they're going to pull some tricks or something in the night. And times when I do that, actually, I do hear them more the next day.
Counselor：So maybe lack of sleep has something to do with voice hearing. And this is very commonly seen in society that the longer that people stay awake, the more liable they are to hallucinate. What about drugs? Are the certain drugs that cause voices? What do you think?
Client：I don't know. I guess I've heard people talking about being a bit paranoid when they take cannabis, but I don't know whether that would be.
Counselor：I mean, there's other types of drugs that make you see things like taking LSD or anything really nasty like that.
Client：Yeah, I've heard of that.
Counselor：Can really make you hallucinate things that aren't actually there. So there's lots of possible causes. It seems like the human brain can very easily hallucinate under certain conditions, and there are certain things that can keep that hallucination going. So it seems like about 8% of society will have a period in their life of hearing the kind of voices that you're hearing, Tony. But the vast majority of them will get better again. 8%. 8%. So it's a very common human experience. But at the far end of that 8%, there's a group of people with a diagnosis of schizophrenia because their voices are so distressing. They're hearing them day in, day out, and they're really affecting their life. So that is where that kind of label comes from. Basically, everybody at some point has had some kind of hallucination, whether it be hearing things, seeing things, feeling a touch.
Client：How do you know that?
Counselor：Well, it is said, tony, that following grief, you know, when someone close to you dies, as you grieve over the loss, there's always a phase of hallucination. And during that phase, you will either see that person or you'll hear them speaking to you, or you'll smell a perfume or an aftershave or feel their touch. And after you've finished grieving, it doesn't happen anymore.
Client：Right.
Counselor：One of my friends is an artist, and after his mother died, he heard her speaking to her for three months. He eventually got over her death and she stopped speaking to him. So it's something that we all do and how we react to it seems to be crucial.
Client：That's interesting, because I know that I've been fighting this experience for a long time now. What effect does that have?
Counselor：Well, it seems to be the case that there are some things we can do that will worsen and perpetuate voice hearing.
Client：Right.
Counselor：There are some things we can do which will take the edge off it and bring it under a bit of control. Now, to have it under a bit of control would be very different to the way you've dealt with your voices to date.