Counselor：Hi. Thank you for being here today. I just wanted to start off by asking how your homework was from last week and if it was helpful.
Client：Well, I think it was a little helpful. I did try the breathing exercises, but sometimes I don't think to do them right away. But I did try it a little bit and it did help. Good.
Counselor：So you said you wanted to work on the problem with your anxiety when you leave your son for therapy.
Client：Yes, that's what.
Counselor：Yeah. So we've been working on your breathing like you've been talking about, and if we work on this, then maybe we can move into other things, you know, like in addressing your anxiety elsewhere. But. So why don't you tell me about how you feel when he is in therapy or getting occupational therapy?
Client：Well, I just get very anxious. I don't want to leave him in the room without me. I want to be right there. I'm not used to leaving him alone with other people at all. And I know I get very anxious in the waiting area, and I pace and back and forth and wonder what's going on in the room and listening for anything that might be going on. So, yeah, I just have a lot of anxiety about being separated from him, even for that short time.
Counselor：So do you feel like there's anything that has caused this anxiety? Like, where is this coming from?
Client：Well, I did have a child of my own that passed away, and I think that it probably has affected me with my other children and especially now with, you know, me being older and adopting this little boy. And I'm just scared, always scared that something's going to happen to him.
Counselor：Yeah. Can you tell me more about the problem, like, what are your fears and what are your anxieties when he's in a therapy session?
Client：Well, I worry about, you know, if he's going to fall, if they're working with him on a table, if he'll fall off the table and get hurt. I don't know all the people that are in and out of the therapy bill or the building here. I have some anxiety about someone snatching him if nobody's watching him closely, which I'm sure they are, but I still have that fear that something's going to happen to him, and I'm not right there.
Counselor：So it sounds like you have a lot of anxiety just with your son in general. So does he been any time away from you?
Client：No, not really. Most of the time he's with me or I have a couple of people I trust to watch him. But other than that, he's usually with me, doctors appointments, anything like that? Of course I'm there.
Counselor：Do you trust the therapist that he sees for therapy?
Client：Well, it seems like an awfully nice guy, but I don't know him really well, and I'm hopeful that once I get to know him more, I'll be more trustful, but I still just have a lot of anxiety about him.
Counselor：So the anxiety that you feel about him being in therapy is what you want to focus on today, correct?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Pick that and work for it. And once we've addressed that, then maybe we can address some of the anxiety you feel, like you said, and you can have some time to yourself, maybe, and be able to let him go to preschool. Cause it sounds like he really needs social interaction.
Client：Yes, I'm sure. Well, I know that would be good for him. At some point, he's. I know I'm gonna have to address these issues and work through these issues. It's just very difficult.
Counselor：Do you feel this way with your other children or just with the youngest?
Client：Just with the youngest. The other children are older and they're able to verbalize and tell me if anything's going on or. But this little boy, you know, like I said, I adopted him and he has some special needs and I just worry about him, I think, more, but it sounds like.
Counselor：So your anxiety goes beyond kind of normal parent like parental worry and sounds like it's pretty extreme.
Client：Yes, it is. And I don't think it's good for him. I know I need to work on this because I don't think it's good for Jack to be in this situation with all. With my anxiety. It's not good for him.
Counselor：So what do you say your biggest fears are when he's in the therapy session, when you can't see him?
Client：My biggest fear is that he's going to get hurt, that he's going to fall off the table or he's going to. They're going to have him doing activities that he could get hurt. That's probably my biggest fear. The second one would be that somebody would not be watching him for a moment and that someone would, you know, just take off with him.
Counselor：Well, why don't we kind of, with CBT, we think about different ways, like, kind of for and against those thoughts. So if you don't mind, you have a pen and a paper, so you would just write these down. You come up, we'll come up with some evidence for and against him getting hurt or someone taking him while he's in a therapy session and you're not there. So what is some evidence for him getting hurt or taken?
Client：Well, there's a lot of different people in the building to strangers or other families, and that could possibly lead to him.
Counselor：So you write that one down.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：What else?
Client：Well, you know, he's here for occupational therapy, and he's got some motor skill issues, and I'm afraid, depending on what they have him do, that he could be hurt, that he could hurt, get hurt or fall because he's not always real steady on his feet at times.
Counselor：Can you think of any other evidence that support these thoughts?
Client：Not really.
Counselor：So what is some evidence against these thoughts?
Client：Well, evidence against would be, obviously, the therapist, as a trained professional who knows, you know, what they're doing, and obviously, I'm sure safety is number one concern. So that would be something, you know, against. And I am pretty sure he would never be left alone at three years old, you know, where someone would be able to take him.
Counselor：Right.
Client：So in my mind, I know that, but I just can't get past that and feeling anxious about these things that might happen. Right.
Counselor：Well, it sounds to you, like, do you think any other children have ever been kidnapped or hurt at the center?
Client：I've never heard of anyone, but every day you see stuff on the news and about children in a lot of daycare centers and that kind of thing being hurt, abused, or, you know, abducted.
Counselor：Right. But with all the therapists and the adults in the building, it sounds like. And with the way things are set up, it sounds like him being kidnapped from the center is probably not very likely.
Client：No. Right. Like I say, in my mind, I understand that it's probably not very likely at all that that would happen.
Counselor：Right. So you can add that that's just not a very good, not a very high chance of anything happening. So let me ask you, why is he or why do you have to stay in the lobby? Kids don't. Typically, parents go back in the session with their kids.
Client：Well, I have been in, sat in with a few sessions with him, but he actually does much better if I'm not there, he participates more, and if I'm in there, he wants me to hold him, he wants to cling to me, and he doesn't seem to want to participate with the therapy, and I really want him to get the benefit out of the therapy. So, you know, that's why they suggested that I stay out in the lobby during the session. Right.
Counselor：So it sounds like you care about your son and you want him to do well in therapy. So that's why you're addressing this, but.
Client：Right.
Counselor：It's not good for either of you if you're having this kind of anxiety while he's in. While he's in therapy sessions, right.
Client：Yeah, because I think he picks up on it also.
Counselor：So what are some other kind of issues that you feel like you deal with? Like anxiety? Do you feel. Are you, do you feel the same kind of anxiety like when you go to the grocery store or when you're out or if you leave him with the sitter?
Client：I do have anxiety when I leave him with a sitter, even though they are, you know, like I said, a couple of different people that I do trust, but I still have anxiety that something could happen while I was gone away from him. As long as he's with me, I don't really have anxiety at the grocery store or anything like that. Mostly it's just if I have to leave him for any length of time in a situation where even though I trust people, I still have the anxiety that something's going to happen.
Counselor：So do you feel like your anxiety kind of gets in the way at therapy sessions? Like, do people notice?
Client：Well, I think people notice in the waiting area that I pace and just appear anxious. I'm sure I appear anxious, and I know it's best for him, you know, if I stay out there, because I want him to get the most benefit out of the therapy. Yeah.
Counselor：How do you cope? How have you been cope? I know we've been working on your breathing, but I'm sure that doesn't always happen. So how have you been coping with the anxiety? Because you're probably by yourself, right? When you're out of with him, you're probably by yourself, right? While you're out with him.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So how do you feel like you've been coping? Do you have any support?
Client：Yeah, I do have family support, and I also, you know, have a strong faith, and I try to think through things that some of my anxiety, I feel like I just can't help but feel anxious. But at the same time, there's a lot of times I talk to myself about how really unrealistic some of my thoughts are, so I try to work on that part of it.
Counselor：Right. That's what we've been doing with this, with the kind of evidence for and against things in the therapy session. So, yes, it is. You know, there is a chance that he could get hurt and there is a chance that he kidnapped. It's very, very unlikely. And so your anxiety is projecting it to the extreme. Like you do that with everything.
Client：Yes. I do that a lot of times. Yes. Yes. If he has a little bit of a cough or fever and I get anxious that it's more than a cold or, you know, maybe a little infection and I'm just so afraid of losing him, I think.
Counselor：Yeah, that makes sense. Do you think that he picks up on your anxiety? Do you think he's had any issues with being anxious?
Client：I think he probably does. And I think he gets anxious. I think he senses when I'm anxious and he tends to get a little bit upset, clingy. And I think he's picking up on some of my anxiety.
Counselor：You discussed your anxiety with the therapist. Did they know?
Client：Yes, I did. I've talked to a couple of the people here at the rehab center and they've actually been very good and very supportive to try and, you know, reassure me. And so that has helped, too. And as I, as we come more each time, it seems to get a little bit easier to let him go back there on his own.
Counselor：That's good. So do you think that this will be helpful, like, since you've let him do. Have had some separation that. Do you think this will be helpful for other stuff, like letting him go out and do other things on his own? Like, would you be ready to send preschool?
Client：Not today, but yes, I think it will be. I think this is the start of trying to just maintain some, you know, letting him go a little bit. And even though he is only three, there are going to be things coming up and times for him to, you know, that he's going to need to do his own thing and. Yeah. So this has, this has been helpful. It's. I guess I've been putting it off for a long time and I've just not wanted to deal with separating from him just even for an hour. But I. This is a good start. Good.
Counselor：Well, what do you think for your homework for next week? Kind of coming up with some evidence for and against the same things that we've been talking about and letting him go to preschool. Does that sound good? Like coming up with.
Client：Oh, yeah.
Counselor：Like evidence. Right. Like we did today for him going to preschool.
Client：Yeah, I'd like to do that. Give me some time to think about it and make a list.
Counselor：Yeah, sounds good. Well, thanks for coming in today.
Client：Thank you.