Counselor：Hi, Liz. How you doing today?
Client：I'm alright. How are you?
Counselor：I'm doing well, thanks for asking. What's been going on in the last week?
Client：It's still the same. Nothing at home is going right. It's. I'm still yelling, we're still fighting.
Counselor：Like you and your boyfriend.
Client：Yeah. He just can't get it together. He can't. He doesn't do anything right. He doesn't. And I just end up screaming every day and it takes it all out of me.
Counselor：All right, so he can't do anything right. And you're arguing, being angry every day?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So what are you taking away from this? Like, what do you think's going on?
Client：I feel like he does nothing wrong and I end up screaming at him when I come home from work, and that's a lot out of me every day, and I don't want to feel angry every single day.
Counselor：That's what's happening.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：What types of things do you think are triggering your anger response?
Client：It's anything. It's. I come home, he's just sitting on the couch. I've had a long day at work. He gets homework before me, and the dishes aren't done. Nothing's, like, thawed or even started for dinner. And is that just supposed to be my, like, it's not. He could just do one thing and I just. I just lose it. I lose it and I can't. I can't control it. I just started screaming at him that he does nothing, that he could just do one thing for me. He could just have the sink clean, empty one thing, and it. Every single day. And then the next day it's something else. The trash is now, like, you name it.
Counselor：So every. Every day when you come home from work, there's something he's done or failed to do that triggers yelling?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：What's his response to this? Like, what's he doing when you yell at him?
Client：He gets mad back. He just starts screaming back at me. Like, I expect too much and I get too upset and why am I always yelling at him? Why can't I give him the benefit of the doubt?
Counselor：I'm.
Client：But I don't understand it. Like, you could do one thing and then. And I just. I can't help it. I scream at him.
Counselor：Are there other things he does at other times that you feel are helpful? Or is it. Or is it always, like, when you come home, is it always something that hasn't been done right or hasn't been done?
Client：I mean, on anniversaries, whole make dinner. So that's nice.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：He makes good money. So that's. He keeps that together.
Counselor：Okay, that's about it.
Client：Yeah. The rest is just. I just get angry at him.
Counselor：So if you were to pick adjectives to describe him, what adjectives might you. Might you select?
Client：Stubborn, condescending, and intelligent.
Counselor：Intelligent, stubborn, condescending, and intelligent. Do you see him as this way kind of all the time, or is this change?
Client：I don't think it's all the time. Like, there. Like sometime, like a month ago when a friend at work died. Old age, whatever. But I had a long day. He knew it beforehand. I didn't have to say anything. When I came home, everything was good. There was no trash, no dishes. So it's not all the. All the time, but just lately, it's just. I had no words.
Counselor：So lately it's all the time. Yeah, but there's been prior occasions when this hasn't been a problem. Yeah, but there's not many of those. So after you have, you yell and argue, what's it feel like to you then? Like, what's your mood?
Client：I'm still irritable. It's like the dishes don't get done. The problem didn't go away, didn't fix itself while I was yelling. So it just sucks being that angry. Just doesn't. I hate it.
Counselor：So it's not productive for you?
Client：Right, right. It's not productive.
Counselor：But there's a part of you mentioned earlier where, like you said, you just can't help yourself.
Client：Like I said, I just lose it. And I do that because that's what it feels like.
Counselor：So it's like you just. You just see, for example, like the dishes, right? So you just see the dishes aren't done, and immediately there's the.
Client：I just. I go off. Why didn't you do the dishes? You've been home an hour and a half. You could have done one thing for me. I had a longer day, and you knew it.
Counselor：All right, so let me take an example from work, right, so you work in an office with other people. Do they ever frustrate you in a way similar to what your boyfriend does?
Client：Occasionally, yeah, on occasion. Yeah.
Counselor：So there's times where you kind of have that moment with them where you just can't believe they didn't do something.
Client：Or I. Yeah, I just can't stand them sometimes.
Counselor：What's your reaction in terms of anger and yelling to those events?
Client：I get pissed, but I just. I can't. I can't yell.
Counselor：You can't yell? No. Why is that?
Client：I get fired.
Counselor：You get fired. So in those interactions with your coworkers, would be fair to say you're in that moment just as angry as you are with your boyfriend.
Client：And, oh, if not more, because I actually choose to be with my boyfriend. I don't choose to be with those people necessarily.
Counselor：You just happen to be together. And so in those instances, because there's a consequence like being fired, you're able to control the outward expression of anger, meaning you're not yelling, but inwardly, you're still angry at them.
Client：Yeah, I guess so.
Counselor：Yeah. So they don't really know you're angry.
Client：Yeah. I just walk away. I don't think they'd be able to tell.
Counselor：And they're not being yelled at, so they're not.
Client：Right. They wouldn't react. Yeah.
Counselor：No reaction. Right. So there is a thought process that occurs between the trigger and when you act, because at work, you're thinking, you have this thought that comes up, I don't want to be fired.
Client：Yeah, I get there. Must. Yeah.
Counselor：And the consequence of that thought is I'll be angry, but I'm not going to act angry.
Client：Right. I can't act angry or I'll get fired, and I don't want to get fired, I guess.
Counselor：So knowing that there is a thought there when you come home and you see the dishes aren't done, maybe just stay with that example. What would that thought be like? Think back to the last time that happened. Do you remember what you were thinking at that moment as you saw those dishes sitting there not washed?
Client：I mean, just that he never does anything. Right.
Counselor：He never does anything. Right. So you see. So you see the dishes not washed. He never does anything. Right. That's the thought, yeah. And then the reaction, the behavior is finding him. Right. And yelling at him.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：All right, so you see how there is an intervening thought between the trigger, which in this case, the dishes, and the behavior, which is the yelling.
Client：Yeah. I guess there's a thought where I'm sitting there and I'm looking at him, thinking about it, saying, you never do anything. Right.
Counselor：So remember we talked a few weeks ago about cognitive distortions? We talked about, like, the errors, like, consistent. There are consistent errors in thinking. Right. And I'm wondering if that thought, he never does anything right. If that's similar to or matches up with any of the cognitive distortions we talked about. And I'm wondering if it's not. If it's not kind of blocking off your path in terms of thinking. Right. So you're saying he never does anything right.
Client：Right.
Counselor：It's kind of like maybe a kind of all or nothing thinking that we talked about that.
Client：Oh, it's absolute tunnel vision at that point.
Counselor：Tunnel vision, yeah. Okay. So a few different distortions at work. But you mentioned earlier there are times when he does do things right.
Client：Yeah. There are occasions where he must have thought about me.
Counselor：He was more thoughtful than more considerate. Okay. More considerate. So the statement he never does the thought, he never does anything right that could be challenged.
Client：Yeah, I guess technically it could.
Counselor：And what might be as an alternative to the behavior? Right. To the yelling. Instead of doing that, what might be a thought that you could kind of insert right after that he never does anything right. Thought that might change the outcome for you. That might disrupt that connection between that thought and your yelling.
Client：Maybe that he has done something right in the past.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：So it's bound to happen again. It is possible.
Counselor：All right. So an adapted response, as we call him or his self talk, that says he's not. He's not altogether bad because he has done things right in the past.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Right. Which is a little more flexible in thinking than thinking. He. Then your automatic thought.
Client：Right?
Counselor：Yeah. That's your automatic thought. Never does anything right. So a little bit more flexibility in the thinking might get you to a place where you're not yelling. And then on the other side of it, too, I'm wondering if we can't challenge the usefulness of yelling. You mentioned that you've done it quite a bit, but you're not really getting a different result.
Client：It doesn't. The dishes don't get done after that. And the next day, I might still find the dishes there. It doesn't.
Counselor：It's not working.
Client：It hasn't worked. Yeah.
Counselor：So when you're yelling, there's an expression of emotion, but there's also this hope that the yelling will change his behavior.
Client：Right.
Counselor：Something, but it's not.
Client：Yep.
Counselor：And when was the first time in terms of, like, how long ago this was a problem?
Client：I've had previous boyfriends where this was a problem, and that relationship has long gone because of it.
Counselor：So due to the yelling?
Client：Due to the yelling. So I don't. I really do like this guy who's not all bad, and I don't want my yelling to be a problem, my anger.
Counselor：But it's hard to control for you. You're struggling with the anger.
Client：Right?
Counselor：Yelling.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Rationally, you understand it doesn't work. Like, it's not getting what you want, but somehow it feels like a release it feels like justice. It feels good to be able to.
Client：It feels like that's what I'm supposed to be doing, and that's what I do.
Counselor：That's what you're supposed to be doing. Okay. So it feels like it's what you're supposed to be doing. Do you have an idea of what might be a more productive path for you as an alternative to the yelling?
Client：Protective. That's a great word. I guess walking away is what I do at the office.
Counselor：And that has worked for you.
Client：I've been able to take a minute and either remove myself or intervene my opinion more calmly because I haven't yelled at work, I guess walking away and taking a minute.
Counselor：Okay. So that would be one behavioral strategy. So you see the trigger and you have the thought. It never does anything. Right. And then you could intervene with a thought of, I need to walk away. And a behavior of walking away and taking, like, how much time?
Client：I mean, honestly, if I'm by myself, like, five minutes, ten minutes of just me time.
Counselor：So let's even say ten minutes.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So ten minutes. And then you can respond more constructively, more usefully to what is, you know, a type of relational disagreement. Right. You have a disagreement over, it sounds like, who should be doing what.
Client：Right. I. At what point in the day when he was working, when being considerate of the other.
Counselor：And that. That's certainly worth talking about. I mean, that makes sense that you guys would talk through that. But it seems like the yelling. I mean, you're just going right to the yelling.
Client：We're not getting anywhere.
Counselor：Right. So there's not really any time to address the issue.
Client：Right? Yeah, we have not worked out. Dad would help.
Counselor：So the yelling is really an impediment to what you want to achieve with the yelling?
Client：Yeah, I guess.
Counselor：Right. In a manner speaking. Right. It's blocking your goal. So do you kind of recognize that? Like, you seeing how I didn't think.
Client：That there was anything between me seeing the dishes and yelling at him. I knew that the anger wasn't getting me anywhere, but I didn't think I. But I guess there is a moment in between because I don't always yell. Like, I don't yell at work. So there is something else I could do.
Counselor：Right. So if I'm hearing you right, there's a sensation that it's kind of reflexive, like you see the dishes, and automatically you go right to the.
Client：Immediately it feels like I'm yelling.
Counselor：But in actuality, now you're realizing that there's a gap even if it's small, there's a gap where thinking takes place.
Client：And, yeah, there's a sliver that I must see at work that is also there at home.
Counselor：And I'm wondering, too, that there's a sense that. I mean, there's a sense that the rules, the relationship are being violated. You come home, and a part of you might know that's going to happen. Like, you. You come in, you know, you might see that this is not done or some other.
Client：Right?
Counselor：Sure. Not done. So I'm wondering, if you think about it in advance, kind of try to inoculate yourself, so to speak.
Client：Like, oh, I can definitely say it's been a thought. When I'm driving home, I'm like, it's been. Been a long day. It was a long day at the office. And I know he's not gonna have the trash taken out like I asked him or the dishes done or the chicken thought anything.
Counselor：Well, and that goes both ways. Right? The thinking about advance can be a good thing because you can prepare yourself for that moment when you're gonna apply that adaptive response. You can prepare to see something that's gonna potentially upset you. But thinking about advance can also be destructive. If you start investing in the more negative thoughts, like, if you start saying things like, I know I'm going to find something, and you already get worked.
Client：Out, you're starting to get angry.
Counselor：Right. So if you're getting angry in advance, that's not a use of the thoughts, but the thoughts you might want to consciously say to yourself, the adaptive responses would be, you know, I know I'm probably gonna find something didn't go perfectly.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：And I'm gonna be prepared to take a few minutes to. To calm down.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So that way, when you see it, it's not such a shock. It doesn't feel like such a reflex to go right to the anger. Yeah, that makes sense.
Client：It does. It does. It's like one more non productive piece of it that I could change.
Counselor：Yeah. That's within your power to change. Right. And it could be something very good for you. So now it might be working against you, the thoughts in advance of when you come home, but you could have those thoughts working for you.
Client：And just start myself off by thinking, he's not all bad. There could be something there, but it'll be okay. Like, I can just take a minute to myself.
Counselor：Right. There's good. There's useful and unuseful traits. Both. They both coexist. But I'm thinking in terms of this as the adaptive response. There's useful and unuseful traits, but I know I need to calm down if I'm going to get to the like, if I'm going to work through this matter of being considerate and this relational stressor. So adaptive responses to have to be short. They just have to be inserted at the right point, which is right after that automatic thought.
Client：Right. Okay.
Counselor：Okay. We'll work on building some adaptive responses that you can apply and we'll kind of test them and see how well they work.
Client：Yeah, that'd be great.
Counselor：It's my hope that you'll be successful at this and they'll reduce the anger, but it could take time, it could be frustrating. And these will be, we'll continue to build these skills I think will be valuable to combat the yelling reaction and the angry feelings.
Client：I bought that.
Counselor：Okay, so we'll work on that. I'm going to give you a document today called thought record where I want you to just kind of read it over this time and we'll talk about in more detail next time. But it's an opportunity to record your thoughts like a trigger and your thoughts kind of what happened. And then there's a place for adaptive responses, but we'll go through it step by step. I'm just going to give it to you today so you can look at it and familiarize yourself with the format. All fits on one page. And what I'm going to ask you to do in the future is to complete these thought records. When you have a thought that ends up with a behavior, whether it's a desirable or undesirable outcome, we're going to see what the process is and then how well the adaptive responses are working because we may have to adjust them a bit over time.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Does that more or less make sense?
Client：It does. It does.
Counselor：Alright, so I'll give you that. We'll schedule another appointment and we'll pick up next week and we'll start going through the thought record for this week. I would say try the adaptive response that we worked out here and the behavioral response, which is the ten minutes walking away. Yeah, yeah. And see. And see how well that works. You know, I would expect that would have some level of success. Maybe there's certain times where you're, you're not as successful. That's okay. We want to focus on the times where you can walk away for the ten minutes and we'll see, you know.
Client：What the behaviors were. Try that.
Counselor：Does that make sense?
Client：It does.
Counselor：All right, so I'll give you that try out that after response, and then I'll see you in a week. Perfect. Thanks.
Client：Thank you.