Counselor：Hi, Maury. How you doing today?
Client：I'm doing all right.
Counselor：You doing all right?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：I know last time you were here, you were discussing some relational issues. You want to continue with that?
Client：Yeah, yeah. I mean, you know, it kind of came up again. You know, every time my wife yells at me, you know, I feel like a failure, you know, like I told you last time, I just. I just feel like I can't do anything right, you know? Like everything I try to do is met with arguing and yelling, and I just feel like there's nothing I can do right.
Counselor：So no matter what you do, it's not going to end up the way you want?
Client：Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：So it's frustrating.
Client：Yeah, it definitely is.
Counselor：How is what's going on impacted your relationship with your wife?
Client：I mean, it's rocky, you know, because I feel like I can't do anything right. She doesn't understand that. And then, you know, we don't get along ever because we're just always yelling and I'm always feeling bad, and then it just keeps going like that.
Counselor：So when you. You mentioned you feel like a failure when she. When she yells at you?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Can you think back to maybe the last time, one of the last times you guys argued and try to remember that thought? We've talked about automatic thoughts before. Remember that thought that comes in that moment when she starts. She starts yelling at you?
Client：I mean, she'll yell at me. I mean, I feel, you know, frustrated. Like, why are you yelling at me right now? And. I don't know. I mean, as I was thinking about, like we were talking about it, and as I was thinking about it more this week, kind of felt like, you know, kind of like what happened with my dad, you know? I guess I kind of felt that same way when I was younger. You know, like, if my dad would yell at me or when he would yell at me, I kind of feel that same way. And it feels like the same thing. Yeah. It's kind of the first. I guess kind of the first thought that comes to mind.
Counselor：The first thought is I've been through something like this before, I guess.
Client：Yeah. I mean, I'm not really thinking those exact words, but that's definitely what it feels like, you know? Yeah.
Counselor：Yeah. Like, it's like just a sense that this isn't brand new.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And the feeling you're connecting with it is the same feeling you had when your dad. Yahweh. Yeah.
Client：Yeah, pretty much, yeah.
Counselor：Yeah. So, in a sense, these arguments are taking you back to another point in time.
Client：I guess so, in a way, that's distressing.
Counselor：Yeah, it is.
Client：I mean, it feels, you know, pretty crappy.
Counselor：Now, in these arguments, she yells at you. You mentioned before that you do some yelling of your own, you know, in the midst of all that. Right. How would you rate it in terms of, like, any physical violence? Nothing like that.
Client：No, it's just words. I mean, we're just, you know, just yelling.
Counselor：And what level, like, what level of yelling would you say? How severe compared to what you've experienced in the past?
Client：Yeah, I don't know. I mean, it's like, you know, sometimes it can get up to, like, the eight or nines, you know, but just, I guess generally it's, you know, down. Closer to a seven on scale, like one to ten. Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：So sometimes it's seven. That would be pretty bad.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：But some other times it's not.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So do you feel like your reaction is being frustrated is disproportionate to what's really going on or you feel like it's money?
Client：I don't know what else to do. You know? I mean, it's just. It's kind of my reaction, my gut reaction to it, you know? I think I'm justified in it because, you know, she just doesn't understand how much she yells at me, you know, and how much that hurts me. You know? I do feel justified. I mean, but it just. It just keeps going, though. And I feel justified, though. I don't know.
Counselor：Let's talk for a moment about, if you're okay with it, about your father and his yelling. You've discussed this with me a little bit before. In the past few sessions. I remember you saying that most. It was in the afternoon. Most of the yelling was when you were both home.
Client：Yeah, I mean, it was. I mean, mostly when I get home from school. I mean, I wasn't, you know, I was in high school, and then after that, you know, I went to college. And so I wasn't really home much during college, but, you know, I guess it'd be after I got home from high school. You know, I'd get home and he'd get home from work and, you know, just kind of be aggravated, whatever, just start yelling and. Yeah, usually when I got back from school, yeah.
Counselor：So he would get back from work, you would get back from school. And how long would that last? How long would the period where you were kind of vulnerable to being yelled at last?
Client：I don't know. I mean, sometimes about an hour, you know, and he'd be yelling because he's, you know, frustrated from work and he's frustrated from the drive home and whatever else, you know? And at some point, he would usually start drinking, you know, so maybe about an hour or so, you know, where that was. Like, you knew you were gonna get it.
Counselor：So kind of every day you could predict that between when you. Or between when he came home after you were already home from school and when he started drinking, you were gonna. He was gonna find something to yacht you about.
Client：Yeah, yeah, yeah. And, I mean, there were some days, like, I knew when he came home, he came home the same time every day. I knew I could get out of the house, you know? Cause at some point, I had a car, my friends had cars, you know, whatever.
Counselor：You had more freedom.
Client：Yeah. Yeah. You know, at some point, I had a job, so sometimes I'd work after school and stuff, so I knew I'd be able to leave the house at times, you know, like when I knew he was gonna start yelling and stuff. But, I mean, there was a period of time probably like my senior year of high school that I just didn't, you know, I just came home and, you know, it was gonna happen, you know, that's the way it happened.
Counselor：Even though you were able to escape it.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Right. You could have stayed out long enough for him to start drinking. Yeah.
Client：Instead you stayed in the house.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：I mean, it was pretty much my whole senior year come home. I knew what was gonna happen, and I just took it. You know, I just. I knew he was gonna yell. I just took it that.
Counselor：Was there ever a period when you first got your freedom that you tried, like.
Client：Oh, yeah, yeah, I did. And. I don't know. I don't know why I didn't just keep doing that. It probably would have been easier, but. I don't know. The whole senior year, I just started. I was just back there at the house when he came home from work.
Counselor：So in that period, were you. Were you. There's times when you did leave, what did he do instead of yell at you?
Client：I guess he had to yell at somebody else. I mean, my. My sister, my brother were home. I guess he probably yelled at them. I don't know. I mean, it felt good to not be there, but I guess he probably yelled at them, which just sucks. I mean, you know, I guess somebody had. Whoever was there was gonna take it, you know?
Counselor：Somebody was gonna get you out there.
Client：Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I guess it was them when I wasn't there. I don't know.
Counselor：And how do you think you took it. When you were there, how well did you respond?
Client：I just got used to it, you know, I knew what was gonna happen. I knew he was gonna yell. I knew that it was gonna make me upset. I knew that just those repeated times, just like now, you know, I'm gonna feel like a failure, which ultimately I did. You know, maybe I probably just became numb to it, you know, it happens so often and same thing every day. Probably just became numb to it and just kind of stopped caring and kind of stopped, I don't know, believing in myself or something, you know?
Counselor：Like you've just given up.
Client：Yeah, probably. That's probably. I don't know. Probably. Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：And how many years total did this experience go on? Do you endure the yelling?
Client：I mean, it would have been while I was in middle school and most of high school. I mean, I told you at some point I was able to leave, but probably all of middle school, most of high school, and I left, and then some, you know, for the rest of the senior year, I would be there. So, I don't know, quite a few years, I guess.
Counselor：A long time to suffer.
Client：Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：And now if we move back forward in time, you're in a relationship where you're getting yelled at a bit. Right. And that's sometimes quite a bit, and that's causing you distress.
Client：It's like the same thing. You're yelling a little bit and. Yeah.
Counselor：So you feel like you're back in the same place.
Client：Yeah, I mean, it does. Yeah. I mean, obviously, you know, she's. She's not doing anything like he was, you know, like drinking or anything like that, but it does. I mean, it's like the same thing that happened is happening again.
Counselor：So that's. In your opinion, that's the consequence of what happened to you. Like, all this yelling that you endured before in some way is significantly contributing to what you're going through now.
Client：Maybe. I mean, I guess it could, you know, because it is the same thing. So maybe it's.
Counselor：There could be some connection.
Client：Maybe. Yeah.
Counselor：I mean, maybe not 100% explain it, but it explains part of it.
Client：Yeah, it definitely could. I definitely could.
Counselor：So your functioning has been affected a bit. I mean, to the point where you're here with me now, we're talking about it, and you're frustrated, and it does sound painful. Now, I'm curious. You mentioned you had a younger sister and a younger brother, and they grew up in the same house. How are they doing?
Client：Well, my sister, she's three years younger than I am. She's doing great. I mean, she graduated from college, like, top of her class kind of thing, you know? And she's about to get married, too. That's cool. Got a really great guy, you know. She's doing great. She lives next town over for me. I get to see her a lot. Yeah, she's great, though. My brother, he's five years younger than I am. He's doing pretty good, too. He's just about to graduate from college. I think he gets really good grades, too, from what I hear, from what he tells me. I don't get to see him as much as I do her because she's in college, but I think he's doing really well, too. You know, they both. Yeah, they both do some really good stuff. They have really good goals and stuff like that.
Counselor：You seem like you have a good relationship with them. You're proud of them. Yeah, definitely.
Client：I'm definitely proud of them. I think they're doing some really good stuff, you know, really trying to make something of themselves. Yeah.
Counselor：So, you know, I wonder. They're doing pretty well. You're doing okay, but you're having a rough time right now. How would things have been if you had taken that? I know it's difficult to predict, but if you had taken that opportunity to not be there, if you had, like you said, you had a car, your friends had cars, you could have avoided. You could have avoided the situation directly between your dad and you.
Client：Yeah, I mean, yeah, I guess I could have. I don't know. I mean. I mean, I took the yelling and stuff, so, you know, it's obviously affecting me now.
Counselor：You took the brunt of the abuse.
Client：Yeah, I guess I did. I mean, you know, I bring it up to them sometimes and they're like, yeah, I mean, dad yelled sometimes, but, you know, it wasn't that bad. Definitely a different experience from what I had. You know, they don't see it like I do, you know? I don't know. Maybe things would have been worse for them.
Counselor：So, in a sense, your father verbally abused you. Nothing makes that right. But in a sense, you, because you were there and you were the target. And. Could ride it out, you shielded them from that abuse.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：I mean, you mentioned it would have been somebody else, right?
Client：Yeah. Yeah, it probably would have been them. Probably was them when I wasn't there, you know? Yeah, I don't know.
SPK_3：I guess you're probably right.
Client：I mean, they are doing pretty well, you know, I think probably they're doing better than I am, I guess.
Counselor：You know, probably no small part because of your protecting them.
Client：Right.
Counselor：I mean, you were in an impossible situation, and you made the choice to stay there.
Client：I guess I did. Right.
Counselor：There was some negative consequences for you, which we'll try to work through, but some really positive consequences for your siblings.
Client：Yeah. Yeah, I guess so. I mean, they, you know, I feel like a failure most of the time, but, I mean, they don't. They're doing good stuff, you know? Shoot, I guess you're right. I mean, that could have been it. I guess I'd love to ask them, like, what, you know, like, what they think would have happened if, you know, the yelling would have been more or something towards them, you know?
Counselor：And maybe you'll find out that when you weren't there, that is what would happen.
Client：Maybe.
Counselor：So you feel like a failure, but at the same time, you're happy for them and proud of all their accomplishments.
Client：Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：It seems like you were a part of that success.
Client：Maybe. I mean, I guess that makes sense, you know? Yeah, maybe. I hope so. You know? I hope so.
Counselor：Well, in cognitive therapy, oftentimes, we try to do what we call reframing. Right? That's where we take. We take a situation and we don't change the facts. Like, we don't move from the truth, but we try to cast it in some different lights. So certainly being yelled at and abused, like I said, nothing makes up. Right. That's awful. And what you're going through now, possibly because of that, is awful, and that's a reality. But at the same time, it's a reality, perhaps that you protected your siblings. Both those things can be true at the same time.
Client：Yeah. Yeah, I guess so. I mean, I guess there's, like, a positive that comes out of that negative, maybe. Mm hmm. Yeah, I hope that's true. I'd like to think of this.
Counselor：So another thing that occurs to me is that you were mentioned how before, I think a few sessions ago, how you're being yelled at now, and you're having some strong reactions to that, just like you told me today. But also, you do some of the yelling, probably, yeah. You think some of that comes from what you learned from your father?
Client：Yeah. I mean, you know, I saw him do it for so many years. Probably all I know how to do, you know, if I'm trying to resolve something or whatever, you know, probably all I know how to do.
Counselor：Have there ever been occasions where your wife starts yelling at you and you don't respond with yelling?
Client：Yeah, I think so.
Counselor：I mean, that's happened a few times.
Client：I guess. I mean, I was trying to think of that this week, too. And, you know, I was trying to be more. A little bit more aware, like we were talking about before, you know, about my reaction to her and stuff. And, you know, I kind of started to realize a little bit more like maybe I'm yelling a little more than I think I do, or maybe a little bit more, like, intensely than I think I do. You know, that's probably the case. That's all I knew how to do. That's all I was taught.
Counselor：That's what you learned. So again, just like your father yelling at you, your wife yelling at you isn't what we want. But maybe in that case, maybe your reaction to it is making it worse. Maybe you're contributing to an escalation again, because it's what you learned, which is understandable. But perhaps in that moment, and we can talk about your automatic thoughts around that, but perhaps in that moment, that automatic thought, whatever it is, is contributing to that behavior of yelling back. And we can get in there and try to interrupt that and maybe get your reaction to be. Maybe the more she yells, the more you calm down, because we know. We know what you're doing now is not working right. And that's not working, and you want to work right. You want your marriage to be successful. So for this week, I want you to reflect kind of on. Kind of on the reframe, you know, kind of how the past is connected to what's going on now, but also how things would have turned out if. If you had just left that whole situation, how it might not be as positive for your siblings. So you contributed some good to a situation that was really miserable for you. And I also want you to try to. I've given you the thought record to work on for homework and stuff. I want you to try to capture that automatic thought. And I know we talked about a little today in terms of your core belief, Andrew, automatic thought when she yells at you. But think about how you can respond to the variety of automatic thoughts that you're having when she is yelling at you and with adaptive responses with the self talk we talked about, and I know there's still from earlier today talk with you, there's still a real focus on the feelings, but in there is a thought. We talked about that before. Even though those feelings are strong, there's a thought in there that's, well, creating them. We believe that it directly leads to them. So what I want to work on with you is interrupting that process. Let's see what's actually happening at the cognition level before it gets to the feeling and see if we can get some self talk in there. So if you complete, you know, as many thought records on that, you know, say, one, one to three, depending on how many thoughts you can identify. So remember to ask yourself that question, what's going through my mind right now? So when that yelling starts, try to maintain focus and say, what's going through my mind right now? Try to think about that. Think about that thought that's automatically coming into your mind, and then we can build some adaptive responses and self talk.
Client：I think my wife's gonna like that one because she's, you know, she likes it, and she's like, oh, you're working on this stuff? I'm like, yeah, I'm sure she'll like it, though. I mean, it's tough. It's not easy, but it's not easy. I know it's worth it.
Counselor：Yeah, it's not easy work, but I feel like we made some progress today. This reframe is something you kind of consider, and then getting in and recording those thoughts on the thought records and work on those and try to make some concrete progress, and we can work on trying to adjust your reaction to what's going on. Does that make sense?
Client：Yeah, that sounds good.
Counselor：So I'll see you at the same time next week, and we'll move on from there.
Client：Cool. Sounds good. Thank you.
Counselor：Thanks.