Counselor：Hello, Aspen. How you doing today?
Client：I'm doing well, thank you. How about yourself?
Counselor：I'm doing all right, thanks for asking. I had met you last time for our first session, and we talked a little bit about kind of your circumstances, what brought you here. And I was hoping today we could get into trying to really figure out how we can help you. Any thoughts on your current situation? Anything changed?
Client：Nothing's really changed. I mean, I'm amazing at my job. My boss just really is someone that I hold, you know, in higher regards than others I work with especially. We went to. We went to the same college. College, of course. And he suggested I come into counseling and he's way off. Way off. So I'm just gonna, you know, let him know.
Counselor：So, as I understand it, you came into counseling because he requested it.
Client：That was what initiated it. But now it's. I need to prove him wrong.
Counselor：Alright, so at first it was because he told you it would be a good idea, but now you kind of see it as an opportunity to prove your point.
Client：Yeah, have a little bit of fun with it. Prove my point.
Counselor：What would you. What would you like to prove through this?
Client：That I'm not the one in the wrong. You know, I. I'm extremely good at my job. I mean, I am the best employee that they have ever had. Not just currently, just. I mean, just ever. I make no errors. So how can I be wrong when it comes to these circumstances with my coworkers?
Counselor：Right. So your co workers have made some criticisms about you and that led to your boss suggesting this.
Client：I would call them criticisms because it's really hard to criticize me. So I would say they take it personally that I'm better than them, you know? So I feel that it's important for me to be able to work for this particular company. It needs to be the best company. And so I need the other employees to at least be at my level. Well, I mean, that's. That's really hard for them to come to my level, but at least be above average. At least.
Counselor：All right, so you have an expectation of them to become at least close to you in terms of your skill.
Client：I mean, it's pretty hard to not make any errors when it comes to accounting with the numbers, with the amount of numbers and the volume of accounts that we have, it's hard to be as good as I am with it, as far as no errors. But yes, I expect a higher standard from the coworkers.
Counselor：And you don't feel like they're performing at that level now?
Client：No, not at all.
Counselor：And evidently you made some different comments to them which maybe they took the wrong way.
Client：I just pointed out the facts of the situation.
Counselor：What type of facts did you, when.
Client：They make mistakes and, you know, how they should be better at certain tasks. I mean, they didn't attend the same, you know, type of college as far as, you know, Ivy League as myself. However, they do have a college education so, you know, that alone would, you know, just kind of go to speak to them having some sort of ability in that area.
Counselor：So you've kind of, in a way you've expressed your disappointment with them.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：To them?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And what are some of the observations or comments they made regarding you?
Client：Oh, they told me my ego is too big, that I'm cocky. That's one. Yeah. I'm just overall, like, I don't know how you can be too confident when your ability is at that level. I mean, I am the best employee they've ever had overall. You know, I was the best student at my college. I received numerous awards from the president of the college alone. I received numerous calls from the college and other companies as well, trying to recruit me to work for them. You know, so I don't think there's, it's impossible to be overly confident, but they, you know, they consider it cocky and arrogant. Get arrogant a lot.
Counselor：The comment arrogant. So you feel they're just really, are they misunderstanding you?
Client：I think they take it as a personal attack.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：Like I'm can, like I'm that concerned with them personally. Like it affect, like I'm talking about them as a person instead of just their performance at work because I'm really not concerned with them as far as like existence outside the realm of performance at work.
Counselor：Alright. So your commentary to them has nothing to do with their value as a person, more with their performance as an employee. And you feel they're misconstruing your observations about their performance?
Client：Very much so.
Counselor：They're taking it personally.
Client：Taking it personally and trying as best they can to push it back on me as I'm the one who's wrong, but I'm obviously not.
Counselor：Alright, so you're not wrong in this and you're frustrated by their reactions.
Client：I mean, I'm okay with it, you know, I mean it's, I don't really take anything they say to heart because they're not at the level to really be able to criticize me. You know, I can take criticism, you know, from constructive criticism, from someone who would, you know, be at my level or above, however, they are not. So it's really nothing. It really doesn't affect me. It does interfere with my job as far as my employer is concerned.
Counselor：Right. That's what led to you. That's what led to him recommending you come here initially. So you don't feel that they're at a level where they can really criticize you. It doesn't really bother you if they have criticism in the first place, but you can appreciate how getting along with them would be better for you as an employee.
Client：I mean. I mean, overall, I like this company. You know, I like working for it. I've been friends with my boss. I mean, we went to the same college, you know, so we have that in common. You know, he is an extraordinary person as far as his abilities, you know, I would say as in the level realm as myself. So, you know, I hold his, you know, opinion, you know, in some sort of regards above the others, so.
Counselor：Okay, so to the extent that they communicate negative sentiment to him about you, that that affects you?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And so what do you think, if anything, what do you think needs to be fixed here?
Client：Well, I think it's on their area and, you know, on their side. They didn't take what I said the wrong way.
Counselor：Okay. So if they had accurately interpreted your comments, that would fix the problem?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Do you think that's realistic.
Client：If they worked at it, possibly.
Counselor：How long have you worked there?
Client：It's been about 15 years.
Counselor：15 years. And how long has this been something that you've been aware of them not feeling so great about your comments to them?
Client：Well, every now and then, this is. We've hit a peak here recently because a lot of the people that I work with feel here recently more. So they've been taken in the wrong way, more prevalent than in the past. In the past, they would, you know, I'd hear, you know, certain comments, but I understood, you know, comments just directed at me, and I just understood that, you know, it was just, you know, envious because I was able to give them. I was at a level where I was able to critique their work. So it never got to a point where I had someone like my boss say anything to me. So this is really the first time that has gotten to that point.
Counselor：So you've noticed things like this in the past, but now it's become more urgent to address it.
Client：It's become more urgent to prove that I'm not wrong in this fact that it is. You know, if this were the case, then, you know, it would have been, you know, it would have been continuous, not just, oh, don't come to a head. So, I mean, that just proves my point even more, that it is their issue and not mine.
Counselor：All right, so if you could somehow prove that they're in the wrong, would that help you?
Client：I mean, it's kind of. To me, it's obvious they are in the wrong because the numbers speak for themselves. It's the fact of the matter. So if. But I guess that if there was something that could change between the relationships that I have with them, then at least would be a little bit better of a flow. So maybe we could get up to the level, you know, that this company is deserving of.
Counselor：Okay, so there's like two. There's two things operating. There's your desire for them to improve and make the company better. And then they're discontent with withdeze your comments to them. So you'd like the company to improve. And you feel that means that you need to be able to voice your opinion to them in an honest way. But everybody needs to get along too. And that's at least to some extent, and that's not happening because they're upset. So do you think there's any steps you could take that could reduce the tension in those relationships?
Client：I need to figure out a way to present the information at a level that they would understand. So drop it down to their level, but also kind of sugarcoat it so they're not, you know, taking it the wrong way.
Counselor：All right, so you need to deliver the same message in a more polite, less threatening package.
Client：I mean, you could say that, yeah.
Counselor：Do you have any ideas how that might look?
Client：I mean, I could start with not comparing their work to mine because that's just unfair. I mean, at no point in time are they ever going to reach that. That level of quality with their work. So that could be a place to start.
Counselor：Okay, so just refraining from drawing that comparison. That could help.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Do you think there could be a benefit in just taking a break from offering any comments to them, any observations, just to let things cool down a bit?
Client：I mean, I could see where you would say, you know, refer that as cool down.
Counselor：Just in an effort to restore the peace. You could still, of course, be aware of different shortcomings in their performance. It might just be helpful to not share that for a while. Just as an idea. Does that seem like an idea that might work. Yeah.
Client：Just keep to myself a little bit more. I mean, that's not very hard around.
Counselor：Them keeping to yourself.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Do you think you would be okay with the. With doing that? Because you wouldn't really be able to offer those. Those helpful comments like, about performance.
Client：If. Well, really, it would, in fact, prove my point behind it all. It would prove that I was right, that it's not me, that it is them taking it the wrong way. You know, because, in fact, if it was, you know, if it wasn't them taking it the wrong way, then I would just say that that would, you know, it would continue. As far as trying to point out, I mean, really, I think it comes down to an issue of being jealous and seeing themselves as less than, so needing to bring. To try to bring me down to make themselves feel better. So if they don't have that to do that, it would prove my point behind this whole thing.
Counselor：Yes. You feel like they're just trying to. They're just trying to tear you down to make up for their own inadequacy.
Client：Oh, definitely. Yeah.
Counselor：And by you just not kind of offering those observations, you're taking the wind out of their sails.
Client：Right. And then it's not. It's only a matter of time before someone else notices that without me pointing that out to them.
Counselor：Right. So your kind of commitment to quality will still be honored because somebody else will see that.
Client：Oh, yeah. There's no way that that could go unnoticed.
Counselor：Yeah. So that'll. That'll take care of kind of both sides of this. Your concern concerns about quality would still be addressed, and you might be able to get more peace in that work environment.
Client：And I would prove that I was right all along.
Counselor：And proving your point, which you mentioned, was one of your reasons for being okay with coming into counseling. So when do you go back to work next?
Client：Tomorrow. Tomorrow morning.
Counselor：Do you think this is a strategy that we can try out right away?
Client：I can handle it for sure.
Counselor：So I will see you again in about a week, if that's okay, and maybe we can reevaluate and see how that worked.
Client：Yeah, I can tell you how I.
Counselor：Was proved to be right, but, yeah, that'd be fine. You could tell me what happened to, I certainly hope for a good outcome in that, and if we need to make any adjustments from that point, we can talk about it then. So give that a try.
Client：All right, sounds good.
Counselor：All right, well, thanks for coming in Aspen. I will see you in a week.
Client：Sounds good.
Counselor：Thank you.