Client：Hi.
Counselor：What brings you in today?
Client：Well, I recently moved, and I just feel really alone and just unhappy.
Counselor：So I'm hearing you feel lonely and unhappy. What's causing those emotions?
Client：Well, I completely alone. I have no friends at all. I just feel at a loss. I've tried making friends, but it's just been super difficult. No one seems. I just don't really have a lot in common with people. And I don't know, I just kind of go home each day, don't even have a job right now, and it's been really just depressing, to say the least.
Counselor：Now, where were you moving from?
Client：I was moving from Los Angeles.
Counselor：And what were you doing in Los Angeles?
Client：I was going to school. Okay.
Counselor：So are you back at your parents house or are you by yourself?
Client：I'm by myself.
Counselor：Okay. And so what? Have you made any effort to make new friends .
Client：Mostly. I have made some effort, but I just, like I said, it just hasn't been going well at all.
Counselor：What have you found that wasn't going well?
Client：Just so try to meet people, and as they're talking, I can just tell that we don't have much in common, and they'll say things that I'm not really into Orlando. Yeah.
Counselor：What would they say? What's an example?
Client：An example. Like, it was also hard because I don't have any friends, so I'm going to these places kind of by myself. So I kind of like, the last time I tried doing this, I went to a bar, which I'm sure isn't the best place I've had friends, but I didn't really know where else to go. And so I kind of sat there at the bar and just kind of order myself a drink and just kind of people watched and someone came up to me, and so I was having a normal conversation and just. I felt. And I'm also, because of my age, a lot of people are just into, you know, I don't know, partying and things like that. And I know I'm at the bar, but I. I used to really have in common, and also a lot of them were working. And so a couple girls I met, too, that kind of was kind of being weird. And I was like, oh, hi. And introduced myself. I was new here and asked if they could recommend some places for me. So then we came talking, and they talked about the job and the different things that they're doing. And then they asked me about my own job and what I'm doing. I said nothing. And it just felt so uncomfortable. They're successful. These people are doing things with their lives, and I'm doing nothing and nor do I have friends.
Counselor：So it sounds like you're making an effort to go meet people and you chose a bar, but you felt a little awkward because you're going to a bar by yourself. Yes. But it's also not the type of people you really want to be friends with. The party scene?
Client：Kind of, yeah.
Counselor：So what would be your ideal type of friends?
Client：I don't know. I guess. See, it's nice that the people are. Have things that they're doing, like a job or they're involved in something, but then I feel inadequate. So it's almost like I need to figure out something within myself, because it's like I have met those people that are. Maybe we do have things in common with, but because I don't, I'm not there at their level yet. It's almost like looking at them as, like a reflection of myself that I. Or it bounces back to me that maybe I am kind of worthless or inadequate or just I don't deserve to be their friend.
Counselor：What I'm hearing is it may not be that they're saying the wrong things or the connection. It may be that you feel you're not worthy of having them as a friend. Yeah. What's the type of emotion you feel when you meet someone new and you're maybe like, a little awkward? What do you feel inside yourself?
Client：I guess like excited, because it's a potential friend, but then a little nervous.
Counselor：And they don't want to say the.
Client：Wrong thing or for them to think I'm weird. So.
Counselor：Have you had any previous situations where someone did say you were weird or awkward?
Client：Not really. It's kind of hard to because I was always really popular growing up, and we have a popular in college, too. And I never. The only reason why I'm back at this town.
Counselor：Excuse me. Somebody restored this room today. Okay.
Client：We were just.
Counselor：We were just doing a.