Counselor：Hi, Sarah. How are you doing today?
Client：Good.
Counselor：Doing well.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Yeah. A little better than last time. Worse?
Client：Kind of. No change.
Counselor：No change?
Client：Mm hmm.
Counselor：So you're still having sadness?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Yeah. And frustrated.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So tell me what's been going on this last week.
Client：Well, Mary's been crying a lot and I'm really tired, so I've needed extra help, you know, with her because I'm so tired and I just can't get out of bed.
Counselor：How much have you been sleeping each night? Like, on average?
Client：I don't know. Maybe 810, maybe more.
Counselor：Maybe more? Yeah. And how long did you sleep each night before you had Mary?
Client：I don't know. Maybe six, eight at the most.
Counselor：So your sleep habits have changed a bit?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And you talked last time about feeling sad. What else has changed?
Client：I'm kind of feeling, you know, like I'm not doing good with Mary, that maybe I should think about getting a job again.
Counselor：And when you say not doing good with Mary, what specifically is going on that's contributing to that thought?
Client：I just remember with George, you know, he would cry in the middle of the night and I would hop right up. And with Mary, when she cries, I just want to roll over.
Counselor：So you're less enthusiastic about caring for her than were as compared to George?
Client：That's a good way of putting it, yeah.
Counselor：You still do care for her though.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Anything else has changed?
Client：I can't think of anything, but I'm sure there is.
Counselor：Well, tell me more about the sadness. Where do you think that's coming from?
Client：Um, I'm not really sure. Maybe just because she's crying all the time and I don't feel like I did with George. You know, everyone said I did such a good job with him and I was a fantastic mother and I was doing such a great job. And, you know, and I just. People are saying it, but I just don't feel like I'm doing as good a job as I did with him.
Counselor：All right, so people are giving the same input. They're saying that you're. You're a great mother in regard to Mary, like you were with George, but you're feeling differently about it.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So their piece really hasn't changed. Like, they're still giving you the same feedback, but your feelings definitely have changed.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：To the point where you feel like you should just get a full time job. And I guess Mary go to daycare.
Client：Yeah. Because she's, you know, little. She's only six weeks now, so, yeah, she would go to daycare.
Counselor：So what comes to mind when you consider doing that, like, working full time.
Client：Um, kind of mixed feelings. Like, I was home with George until he went to school, so I feel like Mary wouldn't be getting the same thing that George got, but I feel like she's not getting the same thing right now.
Counselor：Like, you're just, you're just not doing the same quality job.
Client：Right.
Counselor：What kind of things did you do with George that you look forward to? Like, when he was that age, I.
Client：Would sing to him a lot and we would read books. You know, I started reading to him when he was still in my belly. And then when he came out, everyone's like, oh, it's too soon. But we would read all the time. I would take him to the playground quite often.
Counselor：Like, most days, pretty much, yeah. And that was something you really look forward to.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Have you done those same things with Mary?
Client：I try to, but maybe it's because she's a little fussier. You know, I try singing to her, and with George, it would be like one or two songs, maybe even just one song, and he'd calm down. And Mary's just not the same. It takes longer. Or she just doesn't respond to singing or reading books like he did.
Counselor：All right, so each infant or baby is going to be a little different.
Client：Right.
Counselor：But that feedback is still important to you. You'd prefer if her temperament was more in line with how George's was?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：If it were, do you think that would make enough of a difference to kind of break you out of this, these feelings of sadness?
Client：I would like to hope so.
Counselor：Mm hmm. So part of this could be just adapting to her personality?
Client：Maybe.
Counselor：Maybe. What else could be a part of it?
Client：Um, I don't know. I mean, you know, some of my girlfriends have kids the same age, or I babies the same age, and they're going back to work now, or they have been working for a while. And I kind of feel like now that they're working and have two kids, they kind of look down on me.
Counselor：So they look upon you negatively because you don't work.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Now you say you get that feeling. Is there evidence that you talked about cognitive behavioral therapy and evaluating evidence? Do you have evidence that that's the way they feel?
Client：It's kind of just a feeling. And I forget exactly what she said, but one of my friends was like, oh, you have so much time to do all this? And I'm always working. And it just, the way she worded it kind of made it feel like, you know, I have so much to do. What are you doing?
Counselor：Kind of minimized your place. Well, I can see how that would hurt. And there's always going to be people that say things that we prefer they not say or feel a way that we perceive negatively as a negative effect. But this sadness, I mean, as we've been talking about it in weeks prior, is really markedly worse than what you've experienced ever before.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So after you had. How old is George now?
Client：Six.
Counselor：Six. So after you had George, there was really no period of sadness from what you reported?
Client：No, it was just not sadness. It was just having to get used to having a baby around, but adjustment. Yeah. He was my first, and I was so ecstatic to have him. And my husband and I were so happy. You know, he was our first baby. We were really happy with it. With him.
Counselor：Mm hmm. And you don't have that same. That same feeling now?
Client：It's not that I'm not happy to have Maryland. It's just. I don't know, I feel like things are so different. You know, I have George to take care of. He's running around. I can't give him my full attention anymore. Mary's constantly crying, and I can't seem to soothe her, and I just get frustrated with her.
Counselor：So there's adapting to her needs and personality. But also George's role has to change.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Because he has to fit into it a family with a new member. So there's a lot going on in your mind and a lot of different feelings, but still, the sadness is when you first came in, this was really what was on your mind, sleeping more than you wanted, not really experiencing enjoyment with Mary the way you'd hoped.
Client：Right.
Counselor：And then I think too, kind of a negativistic view of your situation that we talked about. You're seeing things from a negative point of view when before you reported you had not.
Client：Right. You know, with George, he would start to fuss and cry, and I could get him calmed down fairly quickly. Well, with Mary, you know, she starts crying and fussing, and I feel like it may only take, like, 15 or 20 minutes, but to me, it just feels so much longer. And I give up at a certain point, and I just hand her off to whoever's closest, and they seem to get her soothed right away, which may.
Counselor：Be all the more frustrating.
Client：Cause you couldn't exactly.
Counselor：So have any feelings of, like, guilt or anything like that.
Client：Yeah, I mean, when I can't soothe her and I just hand her off, I feel like I'm not a good mom to her. Like, I was with George.
Counselor：So it comes back to, like, you just feel like you're not, you're not given the same quality care, right? Yeah. All right, well, there's a lot of thoughts going on, a lot of feelings going on, and I want to get to those and talk about those and work through them, but in the immediate, I want to look at some of the behaviors. So thoughts, obviously, what you're thinking, behavior is what you're doing. Like, in terms of, like, you mentioned reading when you used to read with George, something you enjoyed. And sometimes when a person has kind of depressive feelings, it's important to engage in activities that would normally bring enjoyment. Even if you don't get the enjoyment, which at the time doesn't feel comfortable, it actually can be a little frustrating.
Client：Right.
Counselor：But the alternative is an avoidance. Oftentimes there's an avoidance of those activities, which can make things even worse.
Client：Makes sense.
Counselor：That makes sense. So in this particular case, what's going on with your family having to adjust to a new member? What activities were you really looking forward to when you're pregnant? What things are you looking forward to? Doing it maryland that we could kind of schedule like, that we could kind of plan for you to do.
Client：I would definitely say reading and singing to her and just, you know, being able to hold her when she was calm.
Counselor：Okay. Okay. So reading to her, singing to her. Anything else? Anything else that you were, like back when you're pregnant, you're thinking, all that would be really fun if I could do that with my child.
Client：I guess just thinking back to what I used to do with George was taking him to the park, and I was really looking forward to that with Mary, but it just didn't happen.
Counselor：It's not been happening. Huh. Have you tried before to go to the park? Like, have you started, like, packing or getting your car keys and getting things ready?
Client：We went once so far with some of my girlfriends, and then it was okay. And then she got fussy towards the end. And the next time, you know, I said I would go, and I just didn't.
Counselor：So what happened at that moment when you were, when you said you were going to go and it was getting close to the time you wanted to go, what happened then that led to you not going?
Client：I just kind of, I guess I got sad thinking about what happened last time, so it just frustrated me, and I didn't want to end up, you know, unhappy.
Counselor：So feelings of sadness and thoughts that you would be unhappy. Mm hmm. Okay. So that's one of the obstacles that we'll have to look at with that particular behavior. So I like to. I like to plan these things out. Let's go with those three things that you have. You have the. You have the reading. Right. And singing. And I presume both of those you just do in your home.
Client：Right.
Counselor：And then the going to the park. Okay. Which, this time of year, I imagine you could go almost every day.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Was that. Would that something you would done?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：With George? Yeah, I did do. All right, so maybe we can schedule this, the reading. How many times a day did you do that with George on, say, average?
Client：Not many times a day, but it would be, like, consistently every day for, like, 20 minutes a day.
Counselor：20 minutes a day. So within the scope of everything you're doing, caring for Mary, 20 minutes isn't a lot of time.
Client：No.
Counselor：So do you want to set that as a goal? So maybe, like, during the Monday through Friday, because I know on the weekends you do other things. 20 minutes a day, Monday through Friday, it'd be like reading time with her.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：What's the time of day do you think would be realistic to do that, based on everybody's schedule?
Client：Um, probably. Well. Well, it's summertime now, but I would have said when George is in school, because he wouldn't be there bugging me. So right now, maybe, like, right after dinner time for her.
Counselor：So about what time would that be?
Client：Like, six, seven.
Counselor：Okay, so let's say 630.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：All right. So that'd be kind of the target time. All right. So around 630. Monday through Friday, 20 minutes of reading. That sound something you could. You could kind of push yourself to do.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：You believe it's something that would be good for Mary?
Client：I do.
Counselor：So maybe that's the thought you carry into that when other thoughts come up, and we'll talk more about the thoughts later. But when other thoughts come up, that attempt to derail that, the thought could be, well, this is good for her, even if it's a little frustrating for me or the energy or the motivation, it's good for her. So tell me about the singing.
Client：With George. You know, it was just like Twinkle, twinkle, Lil Star and the ABCs and just, you know, his favorite song was the ants go marching one by one.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：So I get so frustrated. I haven't found her favorite song yet, or maybe I did and maybe I missed it. But I guess just starting off with Twinkle, twinkle and ABC again would be good.
Counselor：All right. Is there a particular time in the day when singing is convenient with Mary?
Client：I'd say maybe right before bedtime.
Counselor：So about what time is that?
Client：I try and get her in by, like, 738 at the latest.
Counselor：All right. So it wouldn't really be long after the reading.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So you'd read, you'd have a little break, and then she'd get her ready for Bedd singing. Same thing. Do you think that would be good for her?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Yeah. So, again, when those thoughts come up, you know, your thought could be, it's good for her, and that's what you want. Right. All right. So we have the reading at roughly 630. And then the singing. And out of a seven day week, how many how many times would you like to sing to?
Client：I mean, eventually I'd like to get to every day again.
Counselor：Okay, so you want to start maybe at a minimum of four times.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Shoot for four times a week. And then so that'll be the second step. So the first step is the reading. Second step is the singing. And how about going to the playground park?
Client：You mean, like, how many times?
Counselor：How many times in a week?
Client：I'd say maybe start with, like, one or two times right now.
Counselor：Let's go. Let's go. One time. Okay. So when I said that, you kind of, kind of sighed a little. So tell me what you're thinking right then.
Client：With George, I used to go almost every single day. And I just it's so draining to even think about going with Mary right now because I'm so tired.
Counselor：So with this one, you're gonna have a lot of thoughts and a lot of feelings that might impede completing that goal. Is there any are there any other resources we can bring to bear to help you get out of the house once a week, like family supports or anything else?
Client：Yeah. My my mom and my mother in law live close, and I know they have, like, different days. They have off during the week. So one of them, I could choose the day when one of them are off.
Counselor：And then maybe ask them to help me.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So does that type of external motivation, like, when another person comes over and helps you get ready and maybe, I don't know, goes to the park with you or how that works? Does that help you?
Client：I would say so, yeah.
Counselor：Kind of keeps you moving?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：You're saying you don't feel, um.
Client：I completely lost it.
Counselor：It's okay. But the feelings are different.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：When somebody's there to push you a little bit.
Client：Yeah. I feel more like I have to show I'm as good a mom with Mary as I was with George. So it makes me push a little bit harder.
Counselor：And we'll talk about this again later, too, with the thoughts. But evaluating the evidence, you do seem to be as good a mom. You're thinking that you're not, but if you look at the evidence, the evidence kind of suggests you are. So there's a disconnect between the evidence and what you're thinking, which could partially explain the feelings of sadness. Does that make sense? Yeah, but we'll get to that. I want to make sure we get the behavioral part of this in place. So we have the reading five times a week, singing four times a week, and one day a week, go into the park, the playground. And for that, you're gonna get some extra help with the timing and the support. Try to stay motivated.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So as well, first of all, does all that seem realistic, like something you could. You could do?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：You have to fight through some feelings. Right?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So I want to make sure I underscore an important point, which is perhaps some of the times when you try to do these things, you won't succeed. So try to accept those as isolated instance that are independent of everything else you're doing. So if you can't, for example, with the readings five days a week, so on a Wednesday, you don't read. That doesn't. That doesn't necessarily predict what's going to happen Thursday.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Does it make sense? Like, that can be just a one time, you couldn't get to it. The feelings, the thoughts, something else external happens. It gets in the way. Right. Thursday is another day, and you try again.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Because you don't want to fall in kind of the same trap where you stop doing it. Right. And, you know, allow the. The times you didn't do it to become something that's kind of used against you in your thoughts.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So you could. You could miss one time and say, oh, well, this proves that, you know, I'm not a good mother because I missed that one time.
Client：Right.
Counselor：When really all it proves is you missed the one time.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Does that kind of make sense?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So what I guess I'm asking is don't. Don't expand any unsuccessful attempt into your whole week, okay? There will almost certainly be times where life will get in the way. Right? Things happen. So you have to give yourself that leeway and kind of forgive and just press forward the next day and try to do your best.
Client：Okay?
Counselor：So those are all behaviors you think you can more or less stick with at those levels. Let's start there for this week, and when I see you next week, we'll follow up and see how you did with that, and then we'll start talking about some of the thoughts and some different things you can do there.
Client：Okay?
Counselor：Does that sound a good plan?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Thanks, Sarah.
Client：Thank you.