Counselor：Hello, Jordan. How you doing today?
Client：Could have been better.
Counselor：Could be better.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：What's going on?
Client：Um, well, you know, I have two jobs.
Counselor：Mm hmm.
Client：And I lost one of them.
Counselor：You lost your job? Yes. Which one did you lose?
Client：I lost one at the grocery store.
Counselor：That was your part time?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：I'm sorry to hear that.
Client：Me too. And I'm just. It's all I think about now.
Counselor：And when did this happen?
Client：It happened about two, three days ago.
Counselor：Two, three days ago?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So if I remember right, you took that job not too long ago to kind of supplement your income.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So certainly that would be upsetting, but I know that's not a major part of your income.
Client：It's not, but, I mean, I'm still very worried about it.
Counselor：Tell me about the worry.
Client：I mean, I worry that, you know, I'm. Now I only had so much money, and now I have less than that. I mean, without my money, you know, God knows how many things can happen.
Counselor：So before you had the job, you were paying all your bills. You want some extra income, you've lost that extra income. And I can certainly understand how that would be disturbing. But as I understand that you were doing okay before with your full time job.
Client：I was doing okay, but, I mean, I got comfortable with that extra income, and so now my fear is that I've gotten too comfortable with it, and now that it's not there anymore, it's going to affect the fact I'm not going to be able to pay for food or my rent.
Counselor：Okay, so you adjusted to the new income level with the full time and the part time job together, and you're worried you can't adjust back?
Client：I'm worried that, I mean, things are just gonna get worse from here. I mean, it's a big deal, losing your job. Even if it was part time, I've gotten comfortable from having so much money, from the money I had to. Now that's, you know, been divided and, I mean, God knows how many things, like I said, God knows how many things can happen.
Counselor：Well, what. What can happen? So you have that income, your income is reduced now to just your full time job. What can happen from this point on?
Client：Well, I can, you know, keep. Stay in the mindset that I have that extra money and spend what I think is that extra money, digging into the money I paid for my rent, my food, my gas, my insurance, and me, who's somebody without all that.
Counselor：So you could fail to pay expenses that need to be paid.
Client：And they helped me go to my full time job that I still have. So, I mean, if I can't, if I spend the money that was from my insurance because I thought I had extra, then I'm not gonna have insurance on my cardinal. I can get pulled over, lose my license, not going to be able to get to work, and then I'll get fired there too.
Counselor：All right, so the kind of chain of causality you're seeing is that without that part time income, you might not adapt with your expense management. You might fail to pay, for example, your car insurance. You could get pulled over for something the police officer could see, don't have insurance, give you a ticket, which is just money. I don't have another expense. Right. And how would this. How would that connect to losing your job?
Client：Because I wouldn't be able to get to work.
Counselor：So it'd be. So the ticket would be so expensive, you would lose your.
Client：Well, the ticket would be expensive, so I wouldn't be able to try to pay the next month's insurance. So I just wouldn't have insurance on my car. So I.
Counselor：So you'd lose your insurance?
Client：I'd lose my insurance.
Counselor：And then by losing your insurance, you lose your transportation altogether because you can't drive that insurance. And then you lose your job.
Client：Mm hmm. I mean, it's either go to work with an uninsured car, and then I can get pulled over and go to jail for driving with no insurance multiple times.
Counselor：No, that's serious. Yeah. You wouldn't want to do that.
Client：I wouldn't go to jail.
Counselor：So there's two. You have two kind of causal change. One is losing your job. And now even just the idea you can end up incarcerated.
Client：Yes. I mean, which I definitely lose my.
Counselor：Job if I'm in jail, I would imagine.
Client：And so that would have. So then I wouldn't even have, like, any money to help me through jail. Like, to. For the commissary and stuff.
Counselor：Because you would have no income.
Client：I would have no income. And then when I get out of jail, I'm. No one's gonna hire me.
Counselor：Because you have a criminal record.
Client：Exactly.
Counselor：Which makes it challenging to find employment in some instances. So what's happened is kind of in your mind, and we've talked about how thoughts work and beliefs work, is you, in reality, you've lost this part time job. And as I said, that's certainly. That's understandable that you'd be upset about that. I doubt many people would be happy about losing additional income, but you move from there, from losing additional income, which is what has actually happened to this possibility that you could be in jail or lose your job because of this. So I remember maybe last week. Week before, you're talking about the. The letter that you received from. It was like a late notice. It wasn't. Turned out wasn't.
Client：Yeah, it was sent to me, but it was somebody else's credit card mistake. Yeah.
Counselor：Do you remember the conclusions you drew from when you believe that was actually for you, that late notice, that my.
Client：Credit score was gonna go down, that I would. I'd be stuck in that apartment, and then I'd go into depression. I wouldn't be able to do anything.
Counselor：Yeah. So you ended up in that scenario. You end up in a situation where you just couldn't function at all. And you moved there from a letter that you believe was addressed to you, saying you were one month or six days late or something on a credit card, which, of course, you don't want to be late on a credit card, but you move from there to being so depressed you couldn't work, couldn't function, I think, is how you put it. Couldn't function. Do you see, kind of, given how we've talked about cognitive behavioral strategies and concepts, do you see a pattern that's emerged over the last few times I've seen you?
Client：I mean, I've seen that, you know, sometimes I can. I can think the worst, and then. And I know it didn't happen last time, but that was, you know, a stroke of good luck.
Counselor：That it wasn't you.
Client：Yeah. That it was, you know, it wasn't me. And, you know, that was a relief. But this is something that's solid. I don't have my part time job anymore.
Counselor：You've lost real income.
Client：I mean, this isn't a mistake. This isn't a. We fired the wrong person. You know, this is real. So there's real concerns here.
Counselor：I.
Client：Unlike last time, where I was lucky.
Counselor：So this. This situation, you see, is different than the first situation because the first situation was more. You were perceiving something was wrong that wasn't wrong because you weren't the intended recipient of the letter.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：But in this situation, it's different because it's real. You really lost your income.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And, of course, keeping in mind that this job, again, only a few months old, and you survived well before that, is it reason to believe you could survive well again, that you could adapt to this lost income?
Client：Well, I suppose there is, but I'm concerned about whether I'm not, whether I won't adapt.
Counselor：Well, let's look at this in terms of probabilities, right. You've had several jobs throughout your career. You've had some of them worked out. You've lost other ones. You're still paying your bills. So in terms of probabilities, how many times have you, how many times have you ended up in jail or losing your full time job?
Client：I mean, they haven't happened yet.
Counselor：It hasn't happened.
Client：Not yet. But I mean, I, I struggled a little bit when I lost a part time job or when I was younger and I had those little jobs.
Counselor：So you had to adapt.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And it was painful.
Client：I did struggle, yeah.
Counselor：You struggled.
Client：Yeah. I mean, but I'm older now. These are, you know, even though grocery stores, not a serious job. It was income.
Counselor：Sure. Yeah. And again, to lose income would be disappointing for just about anybody. Are there any upsides to not having that job?
Client：I suppose I have more time to focus on my full time job because, I mean, that is really intensive.
Counselor：Is there a possibility that you could find another part time job just as you found that one?
Client：I mean, because will somebody else take me because I was fired from that job? I mean, that's my concern, is that.
Counselor：Nobody, they're going to find out.
Client：Yeah. And then they're going to go, oh, she was fired, you know. No, we don't. We don't want her.
Counselor：But you've had other jobs that didn't work out before and that didn't affect you getting that job.
Client：That's true.
Counselor：So the worst case scenario, I guess what I'm getting at the worst case scenario is, in your case, ending up in jail or losing your full time job, which you've had for a while.
Client：Yeah, I really don't want to lose my job.
Counselor：And it seems like they like you there.
Client：I hope they do.
Counselor：Right? Yeah. So those scenarios, I guess, are possible, but they seem, based on what you're saying, is pretty unlikely. So I wonder how useful it is to invest a lot of energy in kind of tracking that causal chain to jail or prison or to unemployment when that's really not the most likely outcome. Sorry to interrupt you, but do you invest as much energy in tracking the positives or the probable outcomes?
Client：No, not even close. I know that I don't think about the positive things. I mean, I don't get fired and then go, what's good about this?
Counselor：Or get a letter in the mail and say, what's, you know, although I can see there's not much upside to that, although it turned out that was an error, so. But this has still been a theme that I've seen over the last eight to ten weeks, where you really have, you really emphasize the negative, possible, even unlikely outcomes, kind of expanding the negative as you move through. Like a causal chain.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Does that make sense? Yeah, but you don't do the same thing for the positive side. You don't look at how something could work out. Well, would you say it's fair assessment?
Client：Yeah. Yeah, no, that's. That's pretty accurate.
Counselor：But still, you're worried about this.
Client：I mean, yeah, I am worried. I'm not gonna be thrilled about it, but I suppose I don't have to go to when I'm gonna go to jail or I'm gonna lose my full time job.
Counselor：I think there's a lot of intervening factors that could occur before going to jail or losing your job. There's other things that you could do.
Client：I suppose I could get a family member to drive me or take the bus if I lost my insurance and lost my car.
Counselor：So, alternate forms of transportation. Yeah. There's adapting your spending back to where it was before.
Client：That's true.
Counselor：Part of your fear was that you wouldn't be able to adapt your spending. Right. But that's something you would have control over.
Client：I guess. I can keep, you know, better track of how much I do spend and, you know, keep track of my bank accounts and exactly how much money I have in them.
Counselor：So, having talked through this a little bit. Right. What I'm going to refer to, or is referred to as catastrophizing. Remember we talked about that when we reviewed the cognitive distortions.
Client：That sounds familiar. Yeah.
Counselor：Where a negative is taken and just making way more negative than it is at the moment. Right. Kind of knowing that, that tends to be what you do. It's what we call an error in thinking that you tend to make. Does that lower your anxiety about the situation? Does it change it in some way?
Client：I mean, knowing that I'm thinking about it wrong makes me feel a little better.
Counselor：I would say you're thinking about it in a way that's less than useful.
Client：Okay. That actually makes me feel better. Knowing that, you know, these things can happen, but it might not. There's other things that can happen before them.
Counselor：Yeah. I mean, I would even say probably not.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So one way, potentially, and there's a few things we can review over the next few sessions. One way to address catastrophizing, in addition to the adaptive responses which we've talked about before, would be to find some sort of peace with the worst outcome, meaning you kind of take away the power of that anxiety over you. When you can accept worst possible outcomes doesn't mean you look forward to them or you think they're likely, or you dwell on them and ponder them. But I mean, obviously, being in jail, even though it's an extremely low probability event in your circumstance, being in jail would be survivable. Being unemployed would be survivable.
Client：People weaker than me have gone through jail.
Counselor：I guess a lot of people have been to jail. A lot of people lost their jobs. And while it's certainly a struggle, to use your word, right, I mean, that would be more than a struggle. It'd be quite unpleasant. It's at the point where you can accept that that could happen and that you would survive, that you could find some peace with the catastrophizing. Again, we'll have other routes. We'll attack these cognitive distortions from a few different angles. But one of the angles is reaching a point where you could accept that those things could happen. They're unlikely. They could happen, and you would survive.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：I mean, one thing you've shown throughout your. I mean, based on what you described to me, is that you're a survivor. You find a way to make it work.
Client：That makes me feel better. They're thinking about me as a survivor.
Counselor：Right. So in a sense, kind of reframing. We talked about that before, too. Right. Your circumstances as you're somebody that's surviving adversely losing a job is. We talk about negative things.
Client：I'm right in thinking that that's not a good thing, losing my job.
Counselor：It's certainly not ideal in your situation. So you can be defeated by it, right? That's one possibility, but you can survive. You can look at it in terms of, this is a challenge I will overcome, and I've overcome it before. And the advantage to try and look at it from the positive point of view, survivor angle is that you're going to be able to develop more solutions and kind of useful ways of thinking to overcome it. Whereas if you move from the other side, it's going to lead you down the road to worrying about ending up in jail or unemployed, which, again, although that could happen, it's unlikely. And focusing on it isn't going to change it. It's not going to change. It's not going to. It's not going to decrease its likelihood. Okay, does that make sense?
Client：Yeah, I think it does.
Counselor：In a way, it almost increases its likelihood because you're.
Client：I'm thinking about it too much.
Counselor：You're investing in the negative outcomes without really looking at the positive side. Okay, so that's kind of how cognitive distortions work, right? They're consistent errors in thinking, and we'll work on the helping you to reframe circumstances like this. Granted, this is certainly more distressing than receiving that letter that you received. Yeah, but I remember when you were talking about a while back, when you were talking about getting the part time job, you were unsure if you really wanted to take the time and do it. You were kind of on the fence back then about taking it because I.
Client：Wanted to invest all my time in my full time job. But it's always nice to have some extra spending money, especially with the holidays coming up.
Counselor：Sure. So you're on the fence, but you decided to go with it. It didn't work out. So you can revisit it and try to find another part time job, or you can go back to the other strategies you were looking at before. Invest more energy in your full time work. There's some things you want to do in your spare time. You had mentioned kind of recreationally, so it's not good news. But if you look at it in terms of the whole context, you weren't that thrilled about that job in the first place. You had other possibilities. Kind of investing in those could be a route. I'm trying to give you more options than just the catastrophic ones.
Client：I mean, it seems like that there's better ways to go about it than thinking, I'm going to go to jail, I'm going to be unemployed forever.
Counselor：Sure, there's ways that are more useful to you that'll probably help you dig out of this faster and either adjust to not having the income or replace the income.
Client：Yeah, I suppose it's not hard to get a grocery store job again.
Counselor：Well, you did it before. Right?
Client：That's true.
Counselor：And again, even if it is hard, it's a struggle. You survived in that other income for a long time without that. So when you have, and we'll talk about this next time, we can develop some adaptive responses for some of these automatic thoughts that are coming up. So we'll try to identify some of the automatic thoughts that are coming up around the job loss. But for now, I want you to try to get a general understanding of the theme, which is that you tend to catastrophize.
Client：Right.
Counselor：And it is what it is, but it's not so useful for you in terms of your most efficient, productive functioning. It's not bad or good. It's just not useful.
Client：Yeah, it's not the best I could do.
Counselor：And you want to, you know, you want to try to do the best for me. Sure. Absolutely. So does that sort of make sense?
Client：Yeah, it does.
Counselor：So think about, think about that theme, right. And think about the reframe we talked about where you're a survivor, because actually I think that's, that's accurate. You're a survivor. And I want you to focus on those two elements for this week. And then next week when we meet, we'll talk about the automatic thoughts. We'll start identifying those and breaking that down like we do. We did that before.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：To develop adaptive responses. Does that sound like a plan?
Client：Yeah, it does.
Counselor：All right. So consider those two things and we'll pick up with this next week.
Client：Thank you very much.
Counselor：Thanks, Jordan.