Counselor：Hello, Kathy. How you doing today?
Client：I'm okay. How are you?
Counselor：I'm good. Thanks for asking.
Client：Sure.
Counselor：So I know last time we talked you had just touched on this relationship you're in and how it has led to some concerns and some people's feedback has led to concerns. You want to talk about that today?
Client：Yeah. Stu and I were talking about it before I came in, and I can't really figure out why I'm so bothered. We have such a great relationship. I mean, I feel lucky as a woman in the 21st century to have a man who cares about her and takes her out and makes her feel appreciative. I've never had that before. And I go home happy. I go home excited to see him. I can't name a single friend or even my sisters who have that. And still all I hear is there are criticisms, there are words, how weird it is, and why would a 58 year old man want to be with you? You're not even 30 yet, you know? And I just don't see that. I don't see age being an issue. But again, like, I'm just, I'm waking up with those thoughts.
Counselor：The criticisms come from a few of your family members, and you'd mentioned some people at work, too.
Client：Yeah, my mom and my sister. They haven't gotten any better since you and I spoke last. They text me all the time and I just try to not play into it. I just, you know, play civil because it's not their life. I don't live there anymore. But the co workers, that's gotten worse, I think, in that more people are talking about it. It's almost like it's gossip. And that's just not my thing. I don't like being in anyone's business. No one should be in mine. And, you know, love is love. Why should it be a topic for discussion at work? I don't know.
Counselor：So their area of focus is really just the age difference.
Client：They think it's bizarre for sure.
Counselor：They feel it's over some socially accepted limit.
Client：I think so. I don't even know what that limit would be. I mean, I'm 29, you know, I've been living on my own. I can make my own decisions. I've had a job for who knows how long. I'm a capable woman. Like, it's not, I don't, I don't think that should be a measure of me being weird or he being weird just because we're together.
Counselor：Just. Just that age difference. That shouldn't be a factor.
Client：It should not be a factor.
Counselor：And they're not. They're not criticizing any other elements of the relationship.
Client：I mean, maybe they make fun of him because they think he's too old to, you know, come to the bar with us. And I play tennis, as you know, so they think he's gonna, like, fall and break his leg or something if he plays with me.
Counselor：Right. So they're still kind of on the age subject.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So that really seems to be their primary concern, is their giving you advice or criticizing all the things they're doing. So we've talked before, and there's been other issues where you've received criticism from family members and even co workers and even conscientious, and you've examined it and just kind of accepted it and moved on. This is a little different for you, though.
Client：It is. I don't know. And this is why at the beginning, I don't know why these things are infiltrating so deeply. I mean, it's been a great year with him, and, you know, I'm still, like I said, I'm still really happy, but I just don't. I don't get it. I mean, I want their acceptance, but I want this relationship, too. And I'm thinking, I don't know if I can have both because I just feel pushed further away. And he's great. He's great, but he's not my family, you know?
Counselor：All right, so there's kind of a part where you feel like you're being forced to choose.
Client：I definitely feel like I'm being forced to choose right now.
Counselor：So that's one of the problems. Do you have any concerns whether they were generated from outside advice or criticism? Do you have any concerns about the age difference yourself?
Client：I mean, honestly, I think about it, you know, because I think what we have, Stu and I, is great, but, you know, are we gonna get married? Is he gonna wanna have kids? Like, do I wanna have kids? I don't even know if I want to be a wife. I mean, he's been married before. Maybe he doesn't want to do that, but what if he doesn't want to do that? But I do. I don't know. I haven't figured these things out yet. And I think that's part of why I'm listening to these criticisms more, because maybe they're right. Maybe I don't have my head on right. About this.
Counselor：They're definitive. Right. So they have a clear direction, whereas you're still a bit confused.
Client：Yeah. And it's great to hide behind a strong relationship when you don't necessarily have those things figured out because you just go out and you have fun. But thinking about it right now, I have. Yeah. I don't know. I don't have any definitive priorities, really, aside from keeping my job, I guess.
Counselor：So maybe. Maybe part of the solution is talking with him and figuring out how your goals might align with his goals. And that seems to be a concern of yours.
Client：Yeah. We haven't necessarily talked too deeply about that. We joke about things like that, but.
Counselor：So there maybe hasn't been a serious discussion yet where you've really talked about the age difference and how it could.
Client：Play out in a serious manner. Yeah, we have it.
Counselor：I mean, you may not know this, but has he received criticism in a similar way? So this is maybe something he could understand because he's gone through it, too.
Client：Very much.
Counselor：So. Ultimately, I suppose you have to make a decision. Not right now, but eventually you have to make a decision about what to do with this relationship. I know, and there's many factors that weigh into this. Right. So you have your values, what you want for your future, your coworker's relationship with you, your family's relationship with you, his relationship with you. All these things come together.
Client：That's a lot. That's a lot. Yeah. I don't know.
Counselor：There's a lot of factors to it.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Sometimes when a relationship is new, there's like a. There's like a period it goes through wherever kind of love is in the air, so to speak. Right. And sometimes facts don't get weighed as heavily. You familiar with what I'm talking about there?
Client：I know the feeling. Absolutely. Yeah.
Counselor：Where do you feel that you are in terms of that?
Client：I think the veil has been taken off, I think, you know, we've said I love you to each other, but that rosy kind of honeymoon phase, it's definitely going away. It's showing itself to be a messier situation, I think.
Counselor：So you feel like you're able to look at it realistically now as your way, the pros and cons.
Client：I don't know how, but I know I have to. I think. I mean, that's why, like, I just wanted to talk to you about this because I have to figure out, you know, a system to write it down and just make sense of it, you know?
Counselor：Yes. Some process that allows you to come to the conclusion that works best for you, which may mean staying with them and may mean not staying with them or somewhere in between where you have a relationship that is not a full commitment to be with one another, but you still see them. I mean, I guess there's a lot of shades of grey here available, but you're kind of being pressed to figure that out. And you're feeling that pressure to figure that out.
Client：Definitely. The pressure is much more now as I'm starting to realize. There are lots of layers to this that maybe didn't exist when it was all fun and games at the beginning.
Counselor：So how do you make a calculation like this?
Client：I have no idea. I don't know. You know, I've talked with one of my best friends about it, but really, it's just such a weird thing in society that people just don't understand it. And I've got close friends that have stuck by me. I've had so many friends leave because they think what I'm doing is just totally inappropriate. And I don't know who to talk to about it, really, because aside from you, anyone I talk to, just, like, instantly they have a judgment and they know better. So I've tried that. I've. You know, I keep a diary, so I talk about that and I talk to Stu about it, but it just seems like it gets bigger the more I think and try to work on it. And then I just walk away and kind of give up.
Counselor：Give up for a while.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So, yeah, this age difference issue is certainly one where you would expect to get strong reactions one way or the other, right? So somebody is really okay with it and others are very strongly against it. Maybe somewhere in the middle. But it's a polarizing issue. So I'm curious. So if there was. If the larger kind of attitude, society, toward these age differences was that it was fine, how would that affect your decision making process?
Client：If it was okay, I think I would just be asking the normal questions, like, do we have a future together? You know, should we buy a place together? You know, the stuff that I think most girlfriends and boyfriends ask. But this just becomes so much murkier because I don't know if I'm making a decision because he's older than me or, you know, because people see him as maybe not being good for me or his friends seeing me not being good for him. Like, I'm just taking into account everyone's judgments. So I think if that was off the table, it would just be easier. I'd have decisions to make, but it would just be so much easier.
Counselor：You'd still have to work through it, but you could manage that process.
Client：Yeah, like I have. I mean, I've come to you about so many things and we just work through it and I accept it and I kind of use it as a building block. But this is just, like I said, just. It's messy.
Counselor：Yeah. Certainly a lot of moving parts.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So maybe we start here, and you mentioned this earlier about writing things down.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Again, how one makes these calculations is really, it's just up to the individual. But what you could do is maybe write down some of the areas that are definitively positive, like things you like about the relationship and where it's going and where it could go at the same time, definitively negative. Some of the areas that are going to be challenges and maybe a column for challenges or opportunities. You just, you don't know how to categorize neutral or maybe slightly negative or slightly positive, but you're just unsure about. Right. And maybe some of those areas are the ones more influenced by people's criticisms because those judgments have made this harder. If you were to go home and just use that system, like just three columns, that which you have really figured out is good, that which you know is going to be tough. No getting around it. And those areas where you just really would like to work harder to try to figure out if they should be categorized as good or bad, or maybe they just stay as just neutral items. Maybe that can help inform the next session. We can kind of talk through your list.
Client：Sure. And go over it piece by piece and make sense of it.
Counselor：Yeah. I would hope, too. As you write these things down, it's not just a matter of recording information. It's also a process where it might get you thinking about different aspects. And you may look at that list, maybe you do that tonight or tomorrow night, and you may look at that list a few days from now and say, well, I'm going to move this item over to a different column because you're. It's made you think about it more.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Yeah. This is something. I agree. This is something you really have to sit with.
Client：Yeah. I'll start it tonight.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：I think. And just visit it throughout the day for the next week. You know what I mean? Each day, just kind of keep it. Maybe even travel with it in my bag or something. Yeah. Right. Because even, like, even every day is different. Like if he and I get in a fight, you know how we fight. And that might be a pro or a con, you know? So, yeah, I can. I can definitely do that.
Counselor：Yes. It's going to be, you know, rather than a static recording, it's going to be kind of a living document you work on. And probably after you meet the next time, you work on some more and we'll continue that.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：It might make. I hope it would make this decision a little more clear. But I can see that you. You're struggling with this. I appreciate how tough it is and that you really brought this in to talk about. I know this can't be fun to talk about. It's really weigh on your mind.
Client：Yeah. It's just. I know we could be having fun, I think, if I didn't have to worry about this as much, you know? And maybe this will help me make a decision that's actually better for everybody, that doesn't include us being together in this capacity. So we'll see. And I think I just have to grow to accept that.
Counselor：Great. So we'll start with that homework assignment and it might change throughout the week. And then next session week, we'll look over it and we'll kind of see where you are after you've considered all those different items.
Client：I can do that.
Counselor：That sounds good.
Client：Yeah. Great.
Counselor：So I appreciate you coming in. I will see you next week.
Client：Okay. Thank you.