Counselor：Hi, Victoria. How you doing today?
Client：Doing okay.
Counselor：Been doing okay. It's been a while now. You've been practicing with the waiting after you wash your hands? Mm hmm. How's that been going for you?
Client：Well, I think it's been going pretty well. I've been able to, you know, wait pretty good. I'm gonna start it out slow like you suggested, with three minutes. Then I would wash my hands for five minutes. I would wash my hands, and I got up to about 15 minutes.
Counselor：That's great.
Client：And there were some times that I was really proud of myself that I actually forgot.
Counselor：You forgot to wash your hands entirely?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So when was the next time you washed them?
Client：When I would go to, like, eat. Dinner,
Counselor：which is when you normally wash your hands. So really, you touched something that had germs, and you had some anxiety as you had to get to that waiting period. But then the anxiety subsided to a point where I forgot about it just wasn't a priority. You just completely forgot and went on with your day?
Client：Yeah. I was really proud of myself, but I got really concerned because I got sick. I got sick recently, and I'm afraid it's from one of those times that I didn't wash my hands.
Counselor：Well, tell me about the sickness.
Client：Well, my throat started to get hurt real bad, and I was just really congested. And all I could think about was, it's because I didn't wash my hands when I went to the store or when I went to my car when I touched a jacket. That's, you know, been everywhere.
Counselor：How many times do you normally get it? Sounds like a cold.
Client：I mean, it was kind of a light cold.
Counselor：Light cold.
Client：I mean, we wouldn't wait in a.
Counselor：Few days, a couple days. So how long or how many times a year would you get something like that normally?
Client：I mean, I get sick. I mean, quite often because of my job. I'm around a lot of people, and hand sanitizer can only work so much. I do get sick.
Counselor：So it's been six weeks since you started waiting? Right. I think it was around session three where we talked about putting a gap between when you touch something, when you wash your hands, like a time gap, and you got a cold once. Would that be out of the ordinary to get a cold one time in six weeks this time of year?
Client：I suppose not. I mean, the rational part of me knows that I get sick, but just because I'm trying something new with the, you know, and then the waiting and then the not washing, I'm just afraid that there was, you know, you're afraid.
Counselor：They were linked at one cause the other that waiting to wash your hands got you sick. And that could have happened. I don't know. But let's talk about the cold. You said it was a couple days.
Client：It wasn't severe. I mean, I took some, you know, over the counter medicine, slept it off.
Counselor：So wasn't a catastrophe.
Client：No, I've definitely been sicker in my life. And I mean, it did seem like one of those ones that I get every now and then.
Counselor：So when we spoke, I remember before you had said that the kind of worst case scenario, the reason that you're thinking so much about the germs on your hands is that it could make you sick. But you did get sick and you were able to tolerated.
Client：Yeah, I was. Which I found kind of odd because I was. I was panicked at the beginning when I started to feel those first, you know, the itchy throat, the headaches.
Counselor：Sure, it's miserable, right? Nobody wants to get sick.
Client：And I got concerned, you know, that it was because of that. Then it just kind of subsided. I guess I felt a little better, you know, as the days went on, I felt better about it happening, about.
Counselor：The whole getting sick and you started to recover. So kind of the worst case scenario occurred and you survived. And again, we don't know if the, the amount of hand washing you were doing before the ERP exposure and response prevention, we don't know if that would have prevented the cold or not. Yeah, because you do get sick several times, several times a year, in a year. So there's a lot we don't know. But we do know that you survived it and it wasn't as bad looking back at it.
Client：I mean, in my head, not washing my hands and the sick that I would get is a lot worse. It's like hospital worthy. And this was, you know, like I said over the counter, you know, relax a little bit.
Counselor：So not pleasant, but survivable.
Client：It definitely wasn't pleasant, but it wasn't as bad as it could have gone in my mind.
Counselor：So presume for a moment that it was a consequence of not immediately rushing over and washing your hands. What would you rather have? The occasional cold like that or the excessive hand washing and anxiety?
Client：I mean, I definitely don't like the excessive hand washing. I don't. I mean, it ruins my skin and I. It's expensive and it makes me feel bad about myself. And I mean, I guess the trade off is if I get a little sick and that would be okay.
Counselor：Again, that's presuming that it did cause you to get sick, which it may not have.
Client：I suppose that's true.
Counselor：So I wanted to point out, too, that I remember when we, we first started the exposure response prevention exercise, we did it right here in session by touching the arms of the chair. And I can see now your arms are.
Client：Oh, I didn't even notice I was doing that. Oh, I don't, you know, even noticing it, I don't feel like I need to go, you know, wash my elbows or anything.
Counselor：You don't feel that compulsion?
Client：No, I don't. I mean, I know that it's dirty. I know that people sit here and people can be dirty, but I don't feel that need to go wash my hands right now.
Counselor：So your anxiety increased a little when I told you, I pointed out that you were touching it, but not as much as it did before.
Client：I mean, on that scale, I think it'd be about a two.
Counselor：Well, with one being the lowest anxiety and ten being the highest, you're about two.
Client：Well, when you pointed it out, I didn't notice before.
Counselor：So you were a one in anxiety before that. So now you're aware of it a little bit. Right. So your elbows. Your elbows have to touch the chair.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And you're aware of it a little bit and you're a little anxious.
Client：I mean, not so much anymore. I mean, it's kind of. You mentioned it. I got anxious for a moment, and then it's just kind of like, oh, well, you're already doing it and nothing bad's happening right now.
Counselor：Well, good. You made a lot of progress.
Client：Thank you.
Counselor：A lot of progress. So you're still going to have, as we move forward, you're still going to have some anxiety, like when I mentioned that your arms are touching the chair. You're still going to have some anxiety from time to time. Anxiety is part of life.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：It's going to happen from time to time. So one of the things I hope that you've gained from this is that just like you tolerated being sick for those few days, right. Is to tolerate that anxiety. Right. To be able to be okay with having some anxiety in your life.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：In a sense, the fear of being anxious kind of causes a vicious cycle. Right. You have fear of being anxious. You'll do not anything, but you'll do many things to get rid of that.
Client：Anxiety because it gets really bad. It starts consuming me.
Counselor：It's uncomfortable. I remember when you touched the chair before, right? Like many weeks ago, that you had the urge to go wash your hands right away, you were anxious.
Client：Yeah, I remember that.
Counselor：So you become less anxious by waiting and kind of getting used to it. And with that remaining anxiety, what I'm getting at is that at some point you have to learn to tolerate that. And it sounds like that's kind of the direction you're moving that you're able to tolerate. Like, the anxiety is still unpleasant for you, but you're able to survive to.
Client：Kind of live through it. Yeah, yeah, I would really say that.
Counselor：So tolerating that degree of anxiety, is that better than the frequent hand Washington?
Client：I mean, the little bit of unpleasantness versus, you know, the depression and the anxiety that comes with washing my hands? I would really rather take the little unpleasantness, I guess, in the grand scheme of things. Yeah.
Counselor：So where are you now in terms of how many minutes do you wait after you touch something.
Client：On average? Because I write them down, on average, I wait a good seven minutes.
Counselor：So you've been averaging around seven minutes. So I want to continue ramping that up. So if you had no awareness of germs, how many times would you normally wash your hands in a day?
Client：You know, wash them after eating or before eating, touching anything, you know, like a toilet or stuff like that. I mean, so definitely a fraction of what I do.
Counselor：So maybe in a day, ten times, a dozen times maybe would be normal.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：For you. And you were way beyond that before.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So we'll keep working those minutes up. Right. That's using that same schedule and trying to get to the point where you're only washing your hands when you really want to, when you normally would, rather than. Because you're being pushed to by the compulsion. Does that make sense?
Client：Yeah, you know, choosing to wash my hands instead of needing to wash my hands.
Counselor：Yeah. Because sometimes you're going to touch unpleasant objects and you won't be in a place where you can wash your hands.
Client：That's true.
Counselor：Even though it'd be a good idea too. If you're good, you have to be able to tolerate, tolerate that anxiety and be okay with your hands being dirty until you get to a place where you can wash them. So let's go if you're at seven now, let's move up to, let's go to ten minutes between now and I see you next week.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Right. And you're timing this, right?
Client：Yeah, I am timing it.
Counselor：You mentioned. Okay, good. So let's move from seven to ten and we'll just keep getting further away and hope that we can get you onto a kind of a schedule. Washing your hands. That's normal for you.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：That sound good?
Client：It does.
Counselor：Alright. Thanks, Victoria.
Client：Thank you.