Counselor：Hi, Jeff. How you doing today?
Client：I'm alright. Thanks for actually seeing me today. Sure.
Counselor：How have you been? I know last time I spoke with you, you were having some difficulties at work.
Client：I'm still having difficulties at work and that's why I'm glad I have a session today because it hasn't stopped. The frustration and anger is just, it's there ten times more than normal.
Counselor：You're really frustrated. Way more than normal, way more angry.
Client：Yes, it's, there seems to be a lot that's going on and I continually don't get the help that I need, not only not from my coworker, but also my supervisor. So it just feels so that everything is my responsibility and I have to make it happen. And if I don't make it happen, it's not going to happen. And then it's just, it's all on me and I don't feel as though that it's fair. But I also don't want us to not succeed. So I don't know how to navigate those two field.
Counselor：So the weight of the work assignments is really on you. You're feeling that pressure. You want to do right by your employer and there's an emotional toll this is taken on you. Has it reached a point where you've talked to your, it's a coworker supervisor you mentioned?
Client：Yes. So I talked to my supervisor about my coworker actually assisting me with some of the projects that we have going on. And my supervisor keeps on saying, oh, they're helping out and they're doing what they're supposed to do, but they're not doing what they're supposed to do because I end up doing their work. Because, say, for example, last week we actually had to turn in this huge report that we were working on for over a month. Literally, my coworker came to me on Monday and said I didn't do my portion of the report. And I was just like, we had a month to work on a lot of time. And so I spent the next three days doing everything for their part of the report. Luckily, I had already finished my part of the report and then combined it and actually turned it into my supervisor. Of course we get the, oh, this is a wonderful, great job that you guys did. And I'm just like you guys, as.
Counselor：If you both contributed equally.
Client：Correct? Correct.
Counselor：So in three days, you made up for a month's worth of work.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So I could see how that could be. It's very stressful.
Client：Very, very taxing. Very, very taxing.
Counselor：And this wasn't an isolated incident?
Client：Oh, no. This has been going on for probably three or four months now.
Counselor：So this is almost the expectation when you get to work.
Client：Correct? Correct. I think that you hit the nail on the head. It's expected of me and nobody actually sees it as an expectation anymore.
Counselor：It's just what you do. It's just what I do. So you can know that going into work the next day, you go in, whenever that is, that there's always this probability, this chance that you could have work just thrown on you that wasn't budgeted for, you weren't planning on.
Client：Correct. And sometimes that work actually comes out from my supervisor, but it's mostly coming from my coworker. Like, I know they're not going to do their portion, so I just automatically start doing it anyway because, you know.
Counselor：You kind of have to.
Client：I know it's going to fall on my lap either today, tomorrow, next week. So I would rather be preemptive and actually start it then so that I'm not rushing like I was, like last week to finish a month's worth of work and three days worth of time. So I'm not as stressed.
Counselor：So you've tried to address this in the framework, in the context of your work. You've talked to the supervisor, to the co worker?
Client：I talked to the supervisor, I'm afraid. Well, I can't really talk to the coworker because I don't feel as though that's my position. However, I have expressed my frustration, my anger, my disappointment with my supervisor. And my supervisor keeps on saying, oh, I'll fix it, or, oh, it doesn't seem as though that they haven't done their piece of the work because I do all of it and it's turned in. So I have. But there doesn't seem to be anything happening outside of that.
Counselor：What kind of options, in terms of your job do you feel like you have now?
Client：I don't feel as though that I have any options. That's the thing. I think that either if I can, if I don't do the work and we fail, we're going to lose some of these big projects that we're working with, which then is going to impact our entire office. And if it impacts our entire office, like somebody might be let go. And because I am the newest person in our office, I feel as though that's going to be me. So I need to protect my job by doing not only my work, but my coworkers work and sometimes my supervisors work.
Counselor：So you're really figuratively fighting for survival?
Client：Correct.
Counselor：Do you think your coworker is aware that if there is a failure with getting projects done, that you would be the one that would be let go?
Client：I think, yes. I think that they understand that since they are the senior member on team, it would be most likely that the junior member myself would possibly be let go if a budget cut were to happen.
Counselor：So you're really largely stuck.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：With having to do the work.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：How about the emotions involved? You mentioned before, the frustration? Anger. Anger directed at.
Client：I think most of my anger is directed at my supervisor for not doing something because they can clearly see that something's wrong or that I'm handling a lot more, but they're not willing to step in. And I think a little bit of that anger is also at myself, because I haven't just said to my coworker, like, you need to step up and you need to do this. So I'm a little disappointed and angry at myself as well.
Counselor：You're angry at yourself, so you feel like you don't have the ability or courage to make that confrontation?
Client：I don't have the confidence to. The confidence to actually confront my coworker.
Counselor：All right, so before we dig into that too much, is it a good idea to confront the coworker?
Client：I think it would be good for them to understand how their lack of participation in our projects is impacting me and could also possibly impact our entire department. However, I don't know exactly how to say that and not come off as I'm. I know more than you, even though that you've been here longer than me.
Counselor：So you're searching for a friendly, understanding way to convey a tough subject matter.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：To someone who may or may not be receptive.
Client：Correct.
Counselor：But you may presume that they're more likely to not be receptive.
Client：I can 100%. I don't want to say 100%. I will say 99.9% say that they will not probably be receptive if I said that.
Counselor：So you're in for a bit of a battle.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And that was started.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So one option is to avoid it and continue do the work. And that's unpleasant, but you survived. Another option is to, in the gentlest way possible, introduce that confrontation to the relationship and then deal with the fallout of that.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Any potential benefit?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So let's look at that. What's the worst that can happen from making that, confronting that cohort.
Client：It could make things in the office be a little bit more tense. It could possibly put an additional spotlight on what I am doing, or rather not doing, which I'm doing everything. So what I'm doing, it could cause friction between my coworker and my supervisor. It could just cause this unwarranted or unnecessary stress for me to actually just go and say something to them.
Counselor：Could you lose your job or anything like that?
Client：No, I don't think that I could lose my job. I don't think that. If I said something to my coworker, I hope that they wouldn't go to, like, our human resources department, but I don't know if that's something that they would do.
Counselor：So really, you're just talking about going to them and saying, hey, things feel a bit imbalanced. Is there anything maybe we could do to level out the work across us a little better?
Client：When you say it like that, that sounds really easy and non confrontational. So, yeah.
Counselor：Were you thinking of. Did you have another narrative in mind?
Client：Well, I was actually thinking about going to them and saying, hey, you remember this report? You remember this report? You remember this report? You didn't do this, this, this. And I had to pick up your slack on all of that. Can we not make that happen again in the past?
Counselor：Okay, so maybe a little more direct than what I was.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Which is, in part an expression of the way you feel.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：You have feelings that match that pretty well.
Client：Very much so.
Counselor：Do you feel. I know you mentioned a lack of confidence in this area, but do you feel like you could approach it with them or they have a potential win in the end? So before you answer that, let me explain that a little. When we confront people, if we don't leave them an avenue to kind of protect their position in the relationship a bit, it's more of a trapping or cornering. But if we leave an avenue where they can make changes without really having to take full responsibility or blame, sometimes that's more productive, especially for the first introduction of a subject matter, like the first time you confront them. Clearly, if that doesn't work, there's other avenues, different types of confrontation. But I'm wondering if there's a way. So back to my original question. If there's a way that they can be confronted, that leaves them a win in the whole process?
Client：There might be one of the things for each of our projects, we have a timeline, but we don't have a set timeline within the office space to actually say, I'm going to have this done by this date. And you're going to have this done by this date. That's something that I could suggest so that we can hold each other accountable for the work that we have to do. So that might be a way that I could start to broach the subject. So that's one way, but that's the only thing that I can think off the top of my head.
Counselor：And that way may not be really consistent with the way you feel.
Client：It's definitely not consistent with the way I feel.
Counselor：What method? And I don't, you know, this isn't a question where I presume know the answer. What method do you think could lead to a better outcome? Has a better chance of leading to a better outcome?
Client：I believe if I was able to have a conversation where we didn't necessarily talk about the distribution of work, but if we had a conversation on what we're both good at and how we can actually complement each other with doing our work, I think that that would be a better conversation so that they could easily, they could take what I had to say a lot easier, so I could go to them and say, hey, I understand that you're not good at doing this type of report. However, I'm really good at doing this. However, I see that you have excellent skills when it comes to formatting and getting everything together and actually submitting it to whom it needs to get to. Can we actually start to distribute the work that way so that they can do what's. I don't want to say easy, but what's going to be productive for them? And I can do what's going to be productive for me.
Counselor：So really what you're suggesting is not even confrontational. It's just going in and saying, you have some strengths. They have some strengths. Wouldn't it be great if we could explore those strengths and the way we divide up those.
Client：Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：If you went and said that, would there be a part of you that is kind of stuffing down those emotions of frustration during that talk?
Client：Yeah, but I think that if I do have that conversation that way, I think that that frustration and anger that I. That I have had, I think it would slowly disappear because then I know that they would still be doing something for the projects that we have to complete. So I think that my past feelings, they would slowly diminish because I know that we would be doing equal work moving forward.
Counselor：Okay, so you may have some feelings at that moment, but looking at the outcome, as you think about the outcome, you could think, well, this is tough right now, but I feel hopeful that it's going to work out in the future.
Client：Yes. Correct.
Counselor：And that could give you the confidence, ability to kind of push through that exercise, that discussion.
Client：Correct? Yep.
Counselor：Is there a certain time of the day where you feel less frustrated?
Client：It's probably around 03:00 generally, there's a 03:00 slump where everybody goes out and grabs coffee or something. And I think that during that time, that might be a good time to possibly bring up that conversation or at least brooch the subject. I can actually probably broach that subject with my supervisor at that time to see if they think that that might be a good idea.
Counselor：Okay. To get some buy in at that level. So maybe a little bit in the afternoon. 03:00 is there a particular day of the week that's better for discussion like that? There's less stress, less going on?
Client：No, there's not. Basically our weeks, or it all depends on what projects we have coming in, so I can't give a specific day. I know Monday's not a good day just because. And Friday, it's probably not a good day because everybody's just like, I just want to go home and have fun the weekend. So it's probably Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday. That's probably the best time to have that conversation.
Counselor：Now, this is a topic you certainly thought about. You've had feelings about. What do you think you could do to prepare for that talk? What could you rehearse?
Client：For one thing, I think that I need to look at what I'm good at or what I think I'm good at, and then also compare that to what I believe my coworker is good at, so I can figure out what duties can be split up. So that's one thing.
Counselor：So maybe writing that down.
Client：Yep, writing that down. Also, I think that me going into the situation because I don't have the confidence, I think that if I write down what I think I want to say or need to say, I think that might be a way for me to keep the conversation on track and not letting it go off into left field somewhere.
Counselor：You don't want it to go off in left field. That's a goal. That's something you want to avoid. Is there a specific trigger or event that when it comes along, that conversation, that you may see that and say, I need to just break off this conversation, or else I'm risking going off in the left field?
Client：I think that if. When it comes to talking about our strengths and if my coworker just like, I'm perfect at everything. I'm just like, no, you're not. I think that that would, I think, veer the conversation in a different direction, that I don't think that I would be able to get it back on track. So I could possibly, instead of saying, these are the things that I think that you're good at, I can ask them, what do you feel as though that you're good at? So that when we get into the discussion a little bit more, I can actually use their feedback and use their ideas to then figure out how we can divvy up our work.
Counselor：Right. So do you like this idea that we've kind of been bouncing around of a mild, productive, strength based conversation with the coworker?
Client：Yeah, I think it's something that I could work up to doing. I don't know if I could do that tomorrow, but it's something I think that I could work up to.
Counselor：So, how about this for a plan? And let me know what you think of this between now and the next time I see it should be about a week to rehearse and kind of go through and play this out with what we will say, maybe put in a few contingency plans, like, if they say something unexpected or expected, what you would do, and the next session, we can role play that interaction. So give me some ideas of what they might do, and I'll try to play that character.
Client：I think that.
Counselor：Okay, so we'll look at that for next session. So write down those talking points.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Think of the best case scenario and factor in some less ideal scenarios, and we'll just run through the various iterations of that that you bring in, and we'll try to refine your presentation the way you talk to that coworker.
Client：I can do that.
Counselor：Does that sound good?
Client：Yep.
Counselor：All right, so take care of that. I will see you in a week, and we'll move forward, and hopefully we can get you through this obstacle.
Client：Perfect. Thank you.
Counselor：Thanks, Jeff.