Counselor：Hi, Kelsey. It's so good to see you again.
Client：Thanks.
Counselor：Okay, so for today, is there anything that you really want to talk about that's really just on your mind that you want to share today?
Client：Yeah. I was at a party, and I was kind of hesitant about going, and then I went and I realized, like, I just can't talk. Like, I don't like meeting new people. I never know what to say. And then it's, like, an awkward silence, and then I just feel like I don't want to be there anymore.
Counselor：So has this been something that you've struggled with for a long time, or are you just noticing this recently?
Client：A long time, but I kind of avoided social situations where I had to.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：So it was just, like, a reminder that I'm just a super awkward person.
Counselor：Okay, so what are some of the feelings that are associated with that feeling super awkward?
Client：I think, like, embarrassment and just, like, weird. Like, I feel like people are just, like, not wanting to be my friend.
Counselor：So you almost feel, like, what sounds like possibly not being accepted?
Client：Mm hmm.
Counselor：Okay. Has anyone ever made you feel that way before?
Client：Um, I can't remember a time. No. I think I just, like, feel I'm so embarrassed and made such a fool in myself that I don't, like, pursue that friendship as much. Okay.
Counselor：You feel like you're going to make a fool of yourself, or you felt.
Client：Like, when I first meet them, if I was, like, a super awkward silence, I feel so embarrassed, I don't want to talk to them again.
Counselor：So awkward silences, that's one that really causes some anxiety for you. Anything else that makes you really anxious before talking to them? Some of those fears you have?
Client：I think I'm very self conscious about maybe how I look. I think I'm very concerned about, like, how I present myself to people, that I'm always trying to figure out what to say, if that makes sense.
Counselor：And how do you think you look from your perspective?
Client：I don't know. I think I'm just. I think it's more of how I want, like, how I think other people do. Like, I feel like I'm fine, but I feel like other people may not think I'm attractive, and so I feel like they don't want to be friends, but, like, an unattractive person.
Counselor：So you think that other people think that you're unattractive, but you feel fine about yourself.
Client：Mm hmm.
Counselor：So can you kind of tell me what you think is fine? What do you mean by that?
Client：Like, my appearance. I mean, I think I'm like, a cute person. But I also know, like, everyone has a type and, like, a certain group of friends they want. Maybe I don't fit into that. Mm, tight.
Counselor：Okay, so when you said that, that you think you're a cute person, you gave a smile. So it seems like you really believe in that, which is great. So can you give me a number from zero to ten? What you think about yourself? That you're fine, that you're kind of cute. Zero being not at all pretty ugly, or I don't really believe in that. And ten being I'm certain I'm confident in this. And I think I'm pretty cute.
Client：Maybe like, a seven and a half.
Counselor：Seven.
Client：Five.
Counselor：That's really good.
Client：Eight. Seven and a half. Okay.
Counselor：Either one. That's a pretty good number. A pretty strong number. So it seems like you have pretty good self esteem on your end as far as how you value yourself, but it's the fear of how other people value and think about you. Okay. And so is the only concern of people thinking that you're not good looking, unattractive, or is there other concerns too?
Client：I think just the attraction thing is just always in the back of my mind and kind of affects how people talk to you. So I feel like I have to cater around their judgment. Yeah. So it's just hard for me to initiate conversation without knowing, like, what they think about me. Okay.
Counselor：So you're just what? Sounds like you're just kind of thinking what they might be thinking of you, but you don't know. But with you not knowing, that causes.
Client：That anxiety, and it would just be awkward for me to ask them directly, like, what do you think about me? Okay.
Counselor：Now when you can, you kind of guide me on a typical conversation. So say we're in a bar right now, or where do you typically meet people or try to make conversation?
Client：Well, like, the party was one example, and I was just meeting new people, and so let's go with the party.
Counselor：Okay. So we're at a party right now, and I sitting next to you, and you kind of feel like talking to me. How would you approach me?
Client：I probably wouldn't. Okay.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：I, like, wait for. I just, like, hang out with my friends, and then if a new person approaches us in a group, then I'll do it, but I don't venture out by myself.
Counselor：And do you like it that way?
Client：Yes. Okay.
Counselor：So when you came in here, the kind of issue is not making friends and not being able to talk to people. Is it more just not being able.
Client：To talk to people? Just not knowing what to say and just not the anxiety around meeting new people.
Counselor：Okay, but then you're fine with not.
Client：Meeting new people, just in, like, the way. It's just very anxiety, like, causes a lot of anxiety in me. Yeah.
Counselor：Like, I want to meet new people.
Client：But I feel like I would have to be in a group and have to be a very specific situation for it to work. Yeah.
Counselor：So you're not content, then, with just being isolated, not venturing out? You do want to, but it has to be very specific. Being in a group kind of having means to go about it. So have you tried that with the group? Because the examples that you've given me have been very individual. Please.
Client：I feel like with the group, I have, like, a buffer. I can, like, look at someone else or have them chime in, and so it, like, breaks the awkward silence and me just being awkward. Okay.
Counselor：Well, Kelsey, thank you so much for sharing, for being so open. It sounds like we have a lot to work on, and hopefully we can tackle some of that anxiety that you feel during our next session.