Counselor：Alisa, how are you doing today?
Client：I'm doing well, thank you.
Counselor：Doing well.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：What's going on?
Client：I have family coming into town and I have to go to the airport to pick them up.
Counselor：So you have family flying in?
Client：Yes. That's something that I get very anxious about, having to cross the bridge. I have to cross the Ben Franklin bridge and then get over the bridge that goes to the airport by the stadium. I think that's the Girard point bridge. Yeah. That's two levels there. I have to do that both ways.
Counselor：Going and coming both ways. You have to cross four times?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So what kind of feeling is this bringing up for you?
Client：I get very anxious even just thinking about it right now.
Counselor：So you're anxious right here with me?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So I want to try to scale this. We talked about this before with cognitive therapy. So let's say that ten is really the most anxious you're felt about crossing bridges, and one is no anxiety. Where would you be right now?
Client：Right now, probably an eight. Yeah.
Counselor：I don't love anxiety.
Client：Yes. It's worse when I'm at that point on that day, but right now, I think just knowing that I have to do that. Yes.
Counselor：And what's it on that day?
Client：A ten.
Counselor：It reaches a ten, definitely.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：All right. So. But even now, how far away is the. Until they.
Client：Oh, it's a week.
Counselor：So even now, a week out, it's. Nate, this is really hurting.
Client：Yes. I don't like that at all.
Counselor：So for your job and local travel, you don't really have to cross any.
Client：Ten minutes to work every day. And banks. So 20 minutes, shopping centers and everything is just within the vicinity. I don't have to cross any bridges.
Counselor：So no bridges?
Client：No, not at all. I probably planned it that way, too.
Counselor：That worked out well.
Client：That worked out very well.
Counselor：All right. But coming up, pick up the family you will be crossing. So let's look at this at each stage. So, I mean, you're clearly anxious now, as you mentioned. But let's go to, let's try to move forward a week to the day that they'll be flying, what time they fly in.
Client：It's going to be a 04:00 flight. In the afternoon.
Counselor：In the afternoon. So about what time would you have to leave to?
Client：I would have to leave probably at 03:00 because it's only about 20 minutes to the airport. Really?
Counselor：Really.
Client：But I would like to leave earlier. They'll probably take them time. By the time they land and go through, you know, getting their luggages, they probably won't even come out till maybe 430, but I'd like to make sure I'm there at around 334 o'clock.
Counselor：All right, so let's go to that day. Let's go to that day and to that afternoon. So you're still at home. And let's say we're about 15 minutes before you have to get in the car. Car. What are you thinking then?
Client：I have to do this. I have to get up and go. They need me to be there this week. It's my parents coming in and they're elderly, so I don't want them to be stuck at the airport. There's no one else that actually can go pick them up. So I have to get up and go and pick them up.
Counselor：That's what's going through your mind?
Client：That's what's going through my mind. So, you know, there's nobody else that can do this. I mean, it's cheaper than there's no. I probably can't even afford to get a taxi for them because you'd have to cross that's from Philly to. Into New Jersey. So that's going to be very expensive. I can't afford that. When all I'd have to do is pay $5 for the tow and maybe gas up my car for $10 or something. But, um, I. Yeah, I'll be thinking about, I have to do this.
Counselor：I have to do it.
Client：I can do it. Something that I can save money that way. And I don't want to leave them stranded. Definitely someone else can. I mean, they'd be lost. They're not familiar with the airport. And Philly airport is crazy to me.
Counselor：Yeah, it's a big place. A lot going on. So. So you're sitting at home in 15 minutes before getting the cardinal and you're thinking, I have to do this. But your reasons are positive. Like you save money and protect your parents from having to be there alone. So when does the anxiety come in?
Client：Just the thought of the bridge, it's just. I could drive off the bridge. I can fall off. Usually what I do is try to stay in the middle lane. I can't do more than 40 miles an hour. And I just. I'm shaking. I have the radio on and windows down because I can't swim. So if for any reason I'm to fall off, I mean, that's it for me. I even have a little metal one of those. I think it's an instrument that you use in the house for, I don't know, plier or something. Something real hard that I can hit the ground with. It sits right there on my door, on the side of my door. So I'm already, I planned, I have that. I planned ahead of time. I know what I'm going to do as soon as I approach the bridge, but I still feel anxious.
Counselor：So you're anxious before you leave and you're starting to think about the bridge at that point. You already think about it. How about when you get in your car, you start driving toward the bridge?
Client：I say a prayer. I am still anxious. I turn on the radio and the closer I get to, especially the toll point, and I know it's at me. And you see those lights flashing. Last exit before the, you know, the.
Counselor：Toll, you know you're going over once.
Client：Yeah, there's no turning back. There's no turning back.
Counselor：So before that, when you can still exit, what's your anxiety level?
Client：Before, when I can still exit?
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：It'S probably still high. It's probably at a nine or so.
Counselor：It's still high, but it's not maxed out yet. But it's pretty bad.
Client：Yeah, I think it's pretty bad at that point.
Counselor：And how about when you cross through the.
Client：That's when it's at a ten.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：Yes, yes.
Counselor：So your specific fear as you start to cross, this is the Ben Franklin would be the first bridge. Right. You can go across. Is that your car will go off the bridge?
Client：Yes, definitely.
Counselor：And when does that, so that's a ten anxiety. When does that anxiety start to go away?
Client：As soon as I'm getting close to getting off the bridge, I'm now leaving a little sigh of the, there's a little release there. And I know that I've been able to manage those two, three minutes of cross. I don't know how many minutes it takes actually crossing the bridge. I start feeling a little bit of relief, but then again, I know I have to take that exit and there's another one coming right up, so starts all over again.
Counselor：All right, so then you cross the second bridge, the Gerard point bridge, you go to the airport. Does your anxiety drop, any of those points?
Client：Oh, as soon as I'm descending from the Gerard Point bridge, there's less, you know, it's almost reduced. I come, you know, really low.
Counselor：It's almost gone.
Client：Yes. It's almost gone. Yes.
Counselor：And when do you start thinking about that? You're going to have to cross them again?
Client：As soon as I'm exit, I'm getting back on 95 going north. And I know, here we go again. And cars are zooming by and you.
Counselor：Know, because you're not going very quickly.
Client：No, no, I'm that person. The middle lane doing 40 miles an hour. Yes.
Counselor：All right. So you're doing everything you can to keep your car on the bridge, but you're still feeling anxiety, like you're going to go off the bridge.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：The whole time. Until you start really descending.
Client：Exactly.
Counselor：And then you feel like you made it.
Client：Especially when there are those big trucks.
Counselor：Tractor trailers coming because the air.
Client：Yes, yes. Or if it's also in bad weather or at night, it's worst because on the bridge, especially the top one, you kind of see the sky and there's nothing else you see. So it's like you're gonna fall off. Yes.
Counselor：So in the lower level it's not as bad.
Client：On the lower, lower level, coming back it's not as bad because you're kind of like protected here and there. So it's not as bad, but going it's definitely worse. Yes.
Counselor：Are you aware of any time a car would have gone off the bridge?
Client：I hear on the news once in a while you'll hear something happen, or sometimes in movies you see things happen. I think it's possible.
Counselor：It's possible?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：You think it's a high risk?
Client：No, maybe not on that Gerard bridge. Because I noticed. I was checking it the other day, I had to go to the airport and I was trying to measure the distance between the metal poles just to see if a car could fit there. Really? And I think a car could fit there, but, you know, it just depends on the angle you were hit or something or if you flew. So, yeah.
Counselor：Done some thinking, she's done some calculations, geometry. And you've concluded that it's not really likely, but it could. It could fly off the. Alright, but either way, your anxiety is maxed out on each bridge.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Now when you get home, get your parents back to take them back to your home.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：How do you feel then?
Client：I don't even recall all the anxiety. Why it was such a big deal anyway. I don't think about it at all.
Counselor：All right, so when you arrive home, you're down to one.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：All right. So going back to the. The first stage, like when you're getting ready, you were thinking that you have to go.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And it would save your parents money?
Client：It would save me money. I would be the one calling the cat.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：But I would be the one to pick them up and save them from being stranded at the airport and being in a land that they're not familiar with an area they're not familiar with. Make sure that they're safe.
Counselor：How important is their safety to you?
Client：Oh, very important.
Counselor：Very important?
Client：Yes, very important.
Counselor：So, I mean, clearly it sounds like you picked them up before.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So picking them up is. It's worth all the anxiety?
Client：It's worth it, yes. Something that bothers me that I have to do, but, yeah, it's worth the anxiety. I would say so.
Counselor：It's worth it. But you wish that you could do it without anxiety.
Client：Yes, I wish there was another route that I could take and make it to the airport without any bridges at all, but that's not.
Counselor：There's no route without any bridges yet to find. And how long have you had the anxiety with driving fridges?
Client：As long as I can remember that. I know, maybe not when I was younger, but perhaps as a mother and, you know, as someone as I got older and had responsibilities and knew that life was important, I mean, prior to maybe marriage and kids, I didn't have that anxiety. I don't recall having that, even driving or anything like that. I don't recall that.
Counselor：All right. They developed along the way somewhere. And it's been with you ever since?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Okay, so I'd like to do what cognitive therapy, we call a reframe. And actually, you've kind of already done it, but I want to make it a little clearer. So you suffer the anxiety, and you suffer it to protect, mostly to protect your parents. So as you're going over the bridge, you're thinking about the automatic thought. We talked about these before. The thought that kind of pops in your mind is, I'm going to fly off the bridge.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So that seems pretty unlikely. Right? That's not something that maybe, as you talked about geometrically, maybe there's a way that your car could fly the bridge. With physics, maybe it could happen, but it seems like it would be. You're fairly unlikely, so you could challenge that. And this isn't the reframe part, but you could challenge that on that thought, which, with a statement and adaptive response, like, it's pretty unlikely anything's going to happen. That might help a bit. Keep applying that. The chances are vastly in your favor, considering how many cars cross that bridge. How many fly off the bridge? I don't know if I've ever heard of a car fly off one of those bridges. But the other, the reframe part is that you're doing this. You're willing to take on the bridges and have this anxiety for the betterment of your parents. For their safety.
Client：Yes, definitely.
Counselor：So in this whole equation of crossing bridges and anxiety, you're really the good guy in this, right? You're willing to suffer and overcome a fear to make sure your parents are safe.
Client：I never really thought of it like that.
Counselor：Yeah. I mean, and you've thought about it before, like, before you leave, you think, I really have to pick them up. But you've never really connected it to.
Client：No, I haven't connected it to their safety.
Counselor：Well, to be in the good guy.
Client：Well, yeah. Okay.
Counselor：Does that make sense?
Client：Yes, it does. It does? Yes. Like the hero, I guess, my family's eyes, my brothers and sisters appreciate that. Yes.
Counselor：You've overcome it before to pick them up, and when you pick them up again, you'll overcome it again and you'll suffer. But the difference here is that, that reframe, I want you to apply that reframe when you're feeling that anxiety as you get ready to leave and as you drive toward the bridge that you're really, you know, you're doing what you feel is right for the good of your family. So the automatic thought that's going to come in is you're going to fly off the bridge. Okay. That's what the anxiety is about, this fear of. And the reframe. In this case, the reframe adaptive response is I'm doing this for my family. And the probability is pretty low that the bridge, that's a separate thing. But the reframe is I'm. I'm the hero of this. I think that's a great way to look at. You're the hero of this situation.
Client：So think of that terms at the.
Counselor：Beginning of that day or thinking that the whole. The whole day. Yeah, yeah. Just kind of go over that rather than, like something you must do, because really, you don't have to do it, strictly speaking. Right. I know you feel you have to do it it, but you're willing to do it. You're willing to sacrifice and suffer to do it.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：And I'd rather that be the theme that you're getting. It's a positive theme that you're willing to do. It has to be done. It's uncomfortable. You'll survive it, but it's uncomfortable. And focus on that kind of reframe, then focusing on the very low probability that you're. The risk that you're going to fly off the bridge. That's very low risk. Right.
Client：Okay, I can do that.
Counselor：Does that kind of make sense?
Client：It makes sense.
Counselor：So it's not so much being forced to do it, being forced into an extra situation, you're voluntarily being brave. I know it's hard. It's hard for you. You're saying it's a ten on the anxiety scale. That's the highest score. Right. So it's hard for you. But the way to look at it maybe would be you're doing has to be done. You're totally good. Your family, they need you. Have you had any close calls on a bridge or anything?
Client：There was a day when there was a lot of thunderstorm and there was wind, so I could literally feel the car shaking on the bridge. And there was a day, I think, I was coming into Delaware. I had to stop and call those. They say if you need help crossing the bridge. I stopped and called them, but they talked to me for about half an hour or so, and then they told me that it would take another hour for someone to literally be able to come and get me. And this was like I was leaving here. It was probably around 10, 10 30. Class was over. I was on the bridge, and it was late at night, raining, and I just. I couldn't do it. But after a while, I think I calmed down with their conversation, and I was able to just take it easy in that middle lane, and I did it.
Counselor：So you've always managed to overcome, and that might be another good automatic thought or adaptive response to that automatic thought is that I've always managed to overcome this, and it hurts, but I've managed to overcome it by kind of taking charge like that and being assertive. That might help reduce that automatic thought.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：So do you think you could try that this time?
Client：I can try that. Just thinking in that positive way that I've done this before and I can do it again.
Counselor：Yeah. All right, so I'll see you again in two weeks, which will give you an opportunity to pick them up from the airport, and then we'll see how things went with that, and we'll move from there.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：All right, thanks, Lisa.
Client：Thank you very much.