Counselor：So these daggy little sheets we use for cognitive behavioral therapy or strategies. And you can see at the top they talk about the situation, and down the bottom they talk about the feelings, and in between, there's a whole lot of discussion about the thoughts. Yeah. So again, it's sort of easier with a concrete example. So I might get you to write in, if you're happy, to, the situation that you mentioned, the tram situation in the little situation box there.
Client：Of course.
Counselor：Okay, so what have you written in there?
Client：Catching the tram.
Counselor：Okay, so what feelings do you have when you go to catch the tram? And just before you tell me, often it's useful to have sort of one word for a feeling, something that's really in your gut rather than a long expression. So what's your feeling?
Client：Anxious. That's the one. Anxious.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：That's the one.
Counselor：Do you want to write that in and see? Are there any other feelings that really resonate with you? I mean, that's enough. But is there anything other sort of feeling you have when you're
Client：scared?
Counselor：Okay, so pop that one in there. Anything else?
Client：Embarrassed.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：All right.
Counselor：Do you want to pop that one in there as well? This is great. You've really sort of clicked with it. All right, so now why are we doing all this? Because what I'm going to ask you now is to imagine what the little voice in your head, you know, that little self talk is saying when you're feeling anxious. So what are you feeling anxious about? What's the sort of story in your head that's going on there?
Client：All right, I'm. How's it. What happens? I'm thinking I'm gonna get lost.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：Yeah. So I'm anxious because I think I'm gonna get lost.
Counselor：Okay. So do you want to write that one down?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Yeah. I'm worried I'll get lost.
Client：Yep.
Counselor：See, it's a bit artificial bringing it up, but there's sort of a point to all this.
Client：Yeah, yeah, no, I get it. It's good to actually think through what exactly.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：Happens.
Counselor：Okay, so you said you're anxious because you're worried or get lost. Any other thoughts? That sort of self talk?
Client：Um, yeah, I reckon I start blushing and, you know, going red.
Counselor：Right. Okay. It's another good one to write down. Do you want to write that one down in the thoughts as word? Brilliant. Okay, and so what have you written there?
Client：Panic that I'll go red. Blush.
Counselor：Okay. All right. Got it.
Client：I do.
Counselor：So this is sort of really useful. We've been able to sort of tease out your situation, the feelings. And really, what's that little voice in your head that's going on? Now, there's been a point to all this because what we do with this CBT approach is we try and challenge some of these thoughts. Okay.
Client：Because I know they're, you know, silly. I know that.
Counselor：Yeah. I mean, some of our thoughts are realistic, some of them are correct and. And some of them aren't realistic and not very helpful. And. And it sounds like these ones that are sort of causing problems for you. So, so what I'm going to do, let's look at this first one here. You've said, I'm worried I'll get lost. Okay? So let's just look at the evidence for that. So I'm gonna be a little bit like a lawyer here and so let's look at the evidence for that. Or not. So you say, don't worry, don't get lost. Have you ever been lost in the city?
Client：No, I don't think I have.
Counselor：Yeah. Okay. Do you usually know which tram to get on?
Client：Oh, yeah, I make sure I know because I'm so scared I'm gonna get lost. I make sure I know all the numbers of the trams, where they go. So, yeah, actually. So I've never got lost.
Counselor：Okay. All right. So in some ways, how likely do you think it really is that you're actually going to get lost? I know you're having that thought, but.
Client：Well, it's actually really unlikely.
Counselor：Fantastic. And so what I'll get you to write in this little right hand column here is it's really unlikely I'm going to get lost. Okay, so these are what we sort of call disputing thoughts or, you know, alternative ways of looking at it that a little bit fairer to ourselves and a little bit more realistic. That's fantastic.
Client：So unlikely I will get lost.
Counselor：Yeah. It's actually unlikely, isn't it? Yeah. Have a look at the next one. I'll panic and I'll blush and everyone will look at me. Okay, so let's just have a little look at that. If you did get a bit panicky, do you think people would really be noticing?
Client：Probably not. Maybe not.
Counselor：Well, let's put it another way. Do you look at other people on the tram and sort of decide whether or not they look emotionally happy or sad or panicky?
Client：Not really, no. I don't know. I look out the window or read the paper usually, yeah.
Counselor：And look. That's fantastic because do you think it's. I mean, most people are just sitting on the train doing their own thing and not that really interested in other people.
Client：Yeah, I guess.
Counselor：I mean, we've gone a long way with this today, but can you think of a more helpful thought than. I'll blush and people will look at me. Can you think of a more realistic way of thinking about that?
Client：I don't know. Look, I feel anxious sometimes. Lots of people feel anxious sometimes, and that's okay, you know. Doesn't mean I'm an idiot.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：Fantastic.
Counselor：All right, so do you want to write that in here as the sort of disputing thoughts? That's really good. You've really got the hang of this. And I think you're right. I think people actually probably don't care that much. Sort of doing their own thing.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Brilliant. Okay. And so if we review back on this now, you can see that all these thoughts, I'm worried I'll get lost, I'm panicked, I'll blush. People look at me. And you've moved to this whole other way of thinking here. It's actually unlikely I'll get lost. And if I blush a bit, people don't really care anyway. And it's probably normal. Everyone gets a bit anxious sometimes. Can you feel that? That takes a lot of the heat feelings.
Client：Yeah, it does. Yeah, it makes a feeling. Big difference to see it that way.
Counselor：So I'm not suggesting that just doing this sheet will instantly resolve all these issues. I mean, this works best when you sort of play around with this a little bit. And for homework, I'm going to give you a couple of these sheets to have a play with.
Client：Yeah, that'd be good.