Counselor：Okay. All right. I think it's recording. All right, so let me get started here already.
Client：I'm ready to go.
Counselor：Okay. Hi, Paul. It's good to see you again. Hey, how's the past week been for you since we last saw each other?
Client：Yeah, no, it's been good, you know, just trying to keep busy, I guess, you know, trying to stay away from using. I mean, it's not easy at times because, you know, just the pain I'm in and I just think about things, but, yeah, no, I mean, I'm doing okay. Hanging in there, I guess you could say.
Counselor：So, where would you say your pain is at right now? And it's one to ten, maybe, like, changes every day, but, you know, on average, what would you say?
Client：Like, maybe five? I guess you could say, okay, so, like, not bad, but, you know, it's annoying, but, I mean, could be worse. I guess so. Yeah.
Counselor：Could also be better, though. You know, it's about middle. Middle of the pack.
Client：Yeah, true.
Counselor：Okay. And you said you've been keeping busy. What, uh, what have you been doing?
Client：Um, just, um, like, um, you know, like, watching. Getting myself, like, involved in, like, watching, like, tv shows and playing some games. Also just been doing just, like, since it's been getting nicer up and, like, going up outside with friends for, like, walks, which kind of helps keep me distracted, so. Yeah, so it's. It's. It's been a. That's been helping to a degree.
Counselor：How have the walks been? Even though you're in that level of pain, what is it like?
Client：I mean, it helps, I would say, because, you know, I feel like probably the more if I sit around, I think about it, so, I mean, I guess if I usually get myself up and moving, it helps to distract me from it, so. Yeah.
Counselor：All right. Before your injury, would you kind of. Are those things that you would do, like, going outside, taking walks, watching. Watching things, playing games, are those kind of activities that you would occupy your time with before you got injured?
Client：Yeah, I mean, I also used to go to the gym a lot, so that was, like, a big thing for me. That's kind of like, why to the injury? Because I guess, you know, unfortunately, I don't know, I was overdoing it, maybe, or whatever, but, you know, I used to do that a lot. I just was more. I was definitely more involved, like, physically, with physical activity at that time.
Counselor：Mm hmm.
Client：But, you know, I guess, you know, I don't mind going on walks and stuff like that. It's nice. It's just. It's like, not as satisfying. It's like what I used to do. You know, I look back at what I was able to do, like, where it was at. It's kind of like, you know, it's kind of can be frustrating at times.
Counselor：Yeah, sure. Absolutely.
Client：You know, like, yeah, I do. It does help a little bit, the distract for the distractions, you know, like, doing those types of, you know, those types of activities. So, yeah.
Counselor：Yeah. It sounds like you're dealing with a sense of loss, even though, you know, we kind of tend to assume or associate loss with more grief, you know, losing someone to death or something. Or something like that. But what you're describing is a sense of loss. You know, losing abilities that used to have, that made you feel happier and that that's its own sense of loss.
Client：So, yeah, so it's just like, you know, it could be aggravating and, like, upsetting, like, just, you know, with that, you know, then I just kind of like to deal with the pain. I think that's what kind of leads me. That's what leads me to use because just, you know, makes me feel better. So.
Counselor：And have you. Have you used it all in the past week?
Client：I did. I did once, yeah. I didn't do as much as I usually do, so I guess that's better. But I still did, so.
Counselor：Yeah. Okay. And right now, where would you say, like, your cravings are your urges?
Client：My cravings? I would say, I don't know. It's not, like, terrible right now. It's on the lower end. It's with my sending with my urges, I guess just because I've been doing what I can to kind of, like, occupy myself, which helps a bit, but they're never gone. Yeah, it's always. And obviously, like, they're there because that's why I used this this week. And, yeah, you know, so, I mean, it's. I think it's just trying to, like, work on it to get better at, like, trying to figure out how to, like, keep away is, you know, would be beneficial.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：It's going to take time and hard work, so that. But, you know, that's what we're here to do, so. And last week we talked about increasing kind of awareness of your use, what goes into it, what comes out of it. How did you feel about how last session went?
Client：No, I think it was good because it made me aware of, more aware of are accountable if I do use, I guess, and kind of helped me see my cycle of use or reasons for it, I guess. It's kind of, like, put me on. Like, I don't like a watch or notice. So, in a way, I guess it may be, like I said, a bit more conscious of, like, when I. Like, when I was thinking about it. So it was helpful, I would say.
Counselor：Yeah, yeah, that's great, because that's. That's kind of what the. The main goal of that. That session was. So I'm glad to hear that it helped a little bit. And were you able to. To fill out that record that I gave you a list of, you know, triggers, some thoughts, intensity of cravings, those kinds of things. Were you able to work?
Client：Yeah, I did it. I did it.
Counselor：And how was that experience?
Client：Yeah, it was helpful. Helped me, like, kind of recognize myself a little bit more. Like, for triggers, you know, I put down things that trigger me are, like, boredom, isolation. I would say just, oh, overthinking is a big one, and, like, you know, like, I guess also, like, thinking about, like, the past is a big trigger for me. So there was that, and then what was the. I'm trying to. What the next. What about the other parts again, can.
Counselor：I just ask first? What. What about the past? Do you tend to think of the most that. That really affects you?
Client：Just, like, you know, where it was, like, for my health wise and, like, my physical condition and just, like. No, like, I guess I would even say mentally where I was at. At that time, I was much better. And, you know, like, I. I want to get it be. I want to get back to that point, but, you know, at the same time, like, this. This injury I have, God, is, you know, like, not helping the situation, so I could. It's kind of like. It causes me to, like, think about that. Like, I lose motivation to, like, do anything because, you know, I don't see myself getting back to where it was. So it's kind of like, you know, I sometimes, like, think to myself, like, what's the point, you know? So.
Counselor：Yeah, like, a sense of hopelessness, it sounds like.
Client：Yeah, I guess you could say that. A little bit of that. It's. I think it's just more like denial, like, about accepting the reality of it, maybe, or whatever. I guess. I guess it. Yeah, I don't know. You know, it's a little bit. It's a little. It's a little bit of everything, I guess.
Counselor：Yeah. Okay, so you have it listed, triggers. Um, the next one was some thoughts, feelings, and beliefs that go into. Into use. Like, one of them when you're about to use what. What am I thinking? What am I feeling. What do I tell myself? What kind of. Were you able to think about that kind of thing?
Client：Yeah, I mean, I guess I kind of mentioned it before, right? About, like, you know, the, like, thinking about, like, the past or just, like, getting consumed in my thoughts about, like, you know, like, thinking about different things. Such as, you know, like, I think it is the past mostly, I guess. And then I get, like, upset with myself. And then I guess the more I think about it, the more I focus on the pain, usually, which then leads to me wanting to use because it's just, you know, makes me feel better.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：So there was that. What else was there? I'm sorry.
Counselor：No problem. So it sounds like when you. When you're about to use, you're telling yourself where the common thoughts that you tell yourself are. I'm not going to get back to. Back to what I used to be, how I was. You know, it's. It's just not really realistic for me. I used to be so much better than I was. Now I'm less of who I want to be. Does that sound accurate?
Client：Yeah. Yeah, I would say it's pretty accurate, yeah.
Counselor：Okay. And then we kind of talked about this a little bit, but the intensity of the cravings. So over the past week, you said it was on average, like a five. And then right before you. You did use, you said you used once. What was the. How high were the cravings on a scale of one to ten, would you say?
Client：Um, uh, I don't know, maybe like six. I would say at that. In that moment. So it was enough for a course I used. Yeah.
Counselor：So, yeah, but overall, on average, it was like a five out of ten.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. And then we talked about behaviors like, what do you do when you use? Were able to kind of talk about that and list that out.
Client：Yeah, so. Sorry. So, like, behavior. You mean like, when. I'm sorry. When I do use, like, what I am doing in that moment, you mean or like.
Counselor：Yeah, yeah.
Client：I don't know. I guess, you know, I guess more or less. I just. When I use it, it's just that kind of relieve the pain. So, I mean, it's just kind of like, not really doing anything, like, different, you know? I guess, like, for example, the more of the reason why I use what I don't, like, get myself involved. Right. I. I isolate. I just have myself. I don't, like, that's. You know, I don't go out or I get my. I get myself doing things. Like, I can mention, I think boredom is the biggest trigger and then when I get bored and I'm not, I don't distract myself with something. That's when I start to overthink, and that's what leads to it. So.
Counselor：Yeah, that's interesting because you. You identified isolation and boredom as some of your triggers. And then after you use you, you also tend to isolate and stay put and don't do much either. So it's kind of like a self feeding cycle.
Client：Yeah, yeah, yeah. Now they say like that. Yeah, it's true.
Counselor：And we talked about analyzing the positive results and the negative results of your use. So what would you say are the positive results of using for you? Maybe not just this past week, but in the past, what are the good things that come out of it?
Client：Well, I mean, it gives me. It helps me to. Definitely helps me to feel better. It helps relate, obviously, it's like an instant release of the pain and what else? Yeah, it helps me, I guess, you know, it's good with distracting me and feeling okay, but otherwise, I mean, yeah, I mean, that's really. I guess that's really it, you know, just helps me feel. Feel better in the moment. But then for the negativity, obviously, it's like, I know it's technically just temporary, and it's not like it's not a healthy way to go about things. And I feel like I could get. Try to get myself. I know. I think I have to try to try to be more realistic and know I can get myself back into a better place again. It's just having to get over those temptations or that feeling of quick, you know, release, I guess you could say, or feelings that would really, you know, would help, I guess, would help me more in the long run. So.
Counselor：Yeah. Okay. And have you ever heard the phrase or the term playing the tape?
Client：Sounds familiar, but can you kind of tell me a little more about that?
Counselor：I guess I. Yeah, sure. So it's kind of a common term in addiction between recovering. Recovering addicts. Those. Those in recovery, they kind of refer to playing a tape as basically consequential thinking, like taking an action that they're thinking about doing. Like, say, I'm thinking about picking up and using in this moment and then playing the tape would be okay if I did this, what would happen? And just kind of playing, like, the scenario out in your mind and think and visualizing what happens. And then it's supposed to help think of the consequences and be more mindful of the outcomes of what you're about to do. So that's kind of what goes along with this last piece of what we were talking about, the results, the positive and the negative. So, yeah, that's if you. Yeah, so that's just something to keep thinking about as well.
Client：Yeah, that's helpful. So maybe that's something I can, like you said, think about and try to focus a bit more on as when I get to those points. So, yeah, that's interesting. I guess you gotta piece probably good. I would piece things together.
Counselor：Yeah, it's definitely a skill, you know, like all things. So it's gonna take practice and time, so it's not gonna come 100% right away, but so we talked about all these things, like triggers, becoming more aware of the situations, the thoughts and the feelings, the cravings, all that kind of thing that go into substance use. And now today, the focus is mainly going to be on styles of communication. So in the future, it's going to be important to avoid situations that involve alcohol and drug use. It's important for anyone in recovery to do that. But it's not always going to be realistic. You're going to be, no matter what, you're going to be in a situation that has some kind of relationship to alcohol or drug use. You might be at a pharmacy, you might be at the grocery store. You might just find yourself against your best actions. You might just find yourself around people who are engaged in that kind of use. So it's important to be able to also have strategies and be able to practice those strategies that can make you better at being able to stay away from using. So can you just think of what would be a situation where you would be, where you would feel most pressured to use? Like, you'd feel that, that pressure to engage in that kind of activity.
Client：I mean, realistically, I think it's actually more like when I'm not with friends or like, you know, not out socially, because, like, when I'm, like I mentioned, when I'm out, I'm with people or doing something, that's when I have, like, I'm more distracted. So it's really more like when I'm on my own, you know, think. Because then I have just myself there to, you know, like, think about things. That's probably, like my scenario, the worst case scenario, where that's when, you know, the use kind of comes into play because, you know, just kind of, like, there and, like, and annoyed or upset with things. And I just, like, you know, I don't. I'm thinking I focus on the pain and then, so then I use, okay, okay.
Counselor：So it's less so the more it's less. So the social interaction, more the opposite. The social, the lack of social interaction.
Client：Yeah, exactly.
Counselor：Affects.
Client：Exactly. Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. And today I wanted to go over the different types of communication styles. There are about four, four primary types. I don't want to go over that with you. But first I thought we could just do a basic role play, not related to any kind of substance use, but just try to see what youre, your instinctual, most common type of communication style is. So would you be open to that?
Client：Yeah, sure.
Counselor：Okay. So we can think of a situation where maybe someone, maybe I'm asking you for, to borrow some money for you and just kind of react how you would, you think you would normally react. And I'm going to try to really get you to give me the money, but just react in the way that you think you would normally react. Okay.
Client：Okay. That's fine.
Counselor：Okay. Hey, Paul, I'm really in a, kind of a jam right now. Do you have, like, $20 that I could borrow? I promise I'll pay you back, but it would really help me out right now.
Client：Yeah, I mean, that's, that's fine. Twenty's, twenty's not a big deal. I can do that for you. What do you need it for exactly?
Counselor：I kind of owe some, oh, so guy some money. So this really helps me out, just being able to pay that guy back, that really, I really need it right now. So, um.
Client：Yeah, all right. I mean, yeah, it's $20. I mean, are you sure you're, as long as you're good for giving it, you know, getting. Pay me back at some point. That's, that's cool. I don't mind.
Counselor：Yeah, totally. I'm. You got my word. I'm, you know, I'll totally, totally pay you back, you know.
Client：All right. That's cool, man. Oh, I'll let you, you know, I'll give you a freebie this time, and we'll just try to, like, you know, get, get it back from you when you can. No rush. But I, you know, when you have the time.
Counselor：Okay. So how did, how did that kind of feel?
Client：I felt like, kind of, well, for me, that wasn't too big of a deal because, you know, my opinion, like, $20 is not a lot. So I wasn't too, like, annoyed by that. I mean, if it was, like, maybe a lot more money, it'd be a different story.
Counselor：You know what?
Client：The whole reason is so, like, but for me, like, $20, it's fine. It's not a big deal. And honestly, even if I didn't get that kind of money back, it wouldn't really irritate me too much. It's not like another day. It's not a lot. But, you know, I mean, uh, I mean, clearly, if. I guess if you were to come back, this guy would come back. My friend would come back to me for more money. I wouldn't give it to him because, you know, like, he already owed me. He would already owe me. So. So, you know, I wouldn't do that, essentially. Okay.
Counselor：All right. So that was an example of what we'd call passive communication. And you're always going to run to a different situation that has its own nuance and complexity. No situation is going to be identical. So it's always a complicated process to communicate with someone else and weigh what you want versus what they want, what you're thinking, what you think they might be thinking. It's a very difficult balancing act to strike. But that was an example of what we call passive communication, which is.
Client：A.
Counselor：Person is primarily characterized by a lot of fear of expressing themselves directly. Maybe they feel unable to. They tend to kind of go along with what the other person wants. They might feel like the other person won't listen to them or they won't care if they actually express what they really want. Not that that's necessarily what you were thinking in that moment, but in a situation similar to that, it's the difficulty with expressing one's own opinion and advocating for what you want in that moment. So another example would be if you were asked to go to maybe an event for work or something like that, that is kind of out of your way and it's kind of inconvenient. And instead of, you know, making it known that, oh, this is kind of tough for me, like, I can't. I have other stuff going on. You kind of. You just. Okay, yeah, sure. I'll be able to go that, you know, no problem. Not, you know, not expressing what they need and what they want in a clear way. How do you. Do you have any association with that? Does that ring a bell for you at all?
Client：I feel. Ben. Just give me one sec. Sorry. Cat's being kind of annoying anyways. Um, yeah. Uh, I mean, maybe. Maybe the times I could be, uh, passive, I guess, about certain things. Um, like, I guess probably in the sense of like, passive of like, for example, if, like, I guess I can think of like, if for me, the using temptations are high. Where it's like. And if I. In that moment, like, if it's high. Let's say someone does get in touch with me at that point. Like, you know how I think I miss since I was mentioning before, you know, usually, like, if I do something with friends or something, or, like, even if, like, I play games online with them or something, that's a good distraction, but, like, you know, they might ask me, like, if I want to play. And I kind of just was like, I'm like, I'm like, you know, like, I'm passive about the idea of, like, saying no because of my, like, my feelings of, like, wanting to, uh, you know, use instead, where I probably could be more aware of, like, that I know I'm gonna use or that I could, like, kind of just say, like, be, like, take nothing the easy way out or just, like, kind of do, you know, actually do also, you know, what I enjoy. So, like, play games or something. So I'm actually kind of tough to tell myself, like, oh, this is better. Or I can, you know, actually, you know, have a good reason to want to, you know, do something, not just because of, like, for the. To get away from the drug use, but just because I want to, like, actually, you know, do something with my friends. So, yeah, okay.
Counselor：So it, you feel some connection to it sometimes that kind of, that kind of style of behavior or communication, rather.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. And then from passive, we also have passive aggressive communication, which is someone may appear to go along with, with what another person wants, but then their, their actual behavior stands in contrast to that. They, they may, their behavior may indicate their true feelings about what's going on, even though what they're saying might, might be the opposite. So there's kind of that contradiction between expression and behavior. So an example would be maybe you're invited to another work thing or maybe a family gathering, and you don't really want to go, but you don't want to outright say they don't want to go. So you say, yeah, I just, I got some other things to do first, but then I'll stop by later. That would be an example of passive aggressive, which it can be difficult to kind of identify sometimes because maybe you might not be fully aware of what, what that kind of behavior is. But does that sound familiar at all or.
Client：Yeah, I mean, I can probably, like, use, think of that example. Like, even, like, actually, I feel like, actually, the example I was giving you before was when you're doing the role play was actually probably more past progressive because, like, overall, like, I was like, yeah, I'm fine with the. Given the $20, but technically speaking, probably still in the back of my mind. Like, I'm like, do I really want to do it per se? But I don't, like, speak up. I think. I don't think it's that big a video enough where I need to say something, so I still give it. But, like, even if, like, I guess the example, like, or just in general, if I wanted, like, you know, if people do invite me to do, go somewhere, do something, like, especially if, like, I'm, you know, mentally not. Or physically also, like, you know, mentally not feeling right or physically? Physically. Like, thinking about the pain. Like, I kind of think at that moment more about the. The drugs. And so because of that, I kind of, like, delay it, what I have to do, because I'd rather get my fix first, essentially. You know, obviously, if I get my fix and then I do things with my friends, I'll feel better by doing it then. So, you know, and, of course, sometimes I feel like what happens to that is that I don't even follow through with doing those things anyway because then I'm just kind of, like, content with how I feel. So, like, what's the point of, you know, going out or doing that if I'm already feeling in that moment? Fine, you know, so, yeah, that, that.
Counselor：Specific example, it's a very common aspect of those who experience addiction, those who are in recovery. You're definitely not alone in that wanting to kind of prioritize your own use, but also wanting to satisfy the wants and the needs of others. So that's always definitely a difficult balance to strike as well. And then from passive aggressive, we have aggressive communication, which it's characterized by you primarily ignoring the rights or the feelings of others and ignoring what they might need and putting more focus on what you think, what you need, what you want. And it can be often be very. It can come out in example of, like, yelling, shouting, threatening, someone using intimidation, that kind of insensitivity to the delivery of the message. You may not even want to hear how someone else feels. You just totally disregarded. You know, an example might be giving. Giving people advice that's not needed or they didn't ask for and kind of cutting them down based on how you feel they should be acting. Does this kind of style of communication relate to you at all?
Client：I don't know if I usually, like, per se, give people advice. The only thing I can say sometimes is that I guess if, like, maybe more if, like, I can say in the back. And if, like, my friends tell me what to do per se, I could see it, like, because, you know, they. I think some of them are aware of, like, my drug use, and they, you know, tell me, like, I gotta, you know, they tell me, you know, they try. They try to, like, they kind of tell me I need to stop or, I mean, they don't. The thing is, what I don't like is that it's like they don't. I feel like they don't fully understand what's going on with me, so, like, you kind of. And it's like, I feel like they're telling me what to do, and it so frustrates me at times. And so because of that, I can. You know, I just don't, you know, I don't want to listen to what they have to say because, you know, it's like, they don't. I feel like, you know, like I said, they don't get it entirely. I mean, I know they're trying to help, but, like, it's not like I asked for it at times. So in that sense, I guess I could say, like, it's more. I guess I can see how when someone can get aggressive with you. And I guess in a sense, I'm also aggressive back where I'm, like, being, you know, like, closed off about, you know, like, listening to what they have to say, so.
Counselor：Yeah. Yeah. Aggressive communication is definitely a very. It's a very cyclical kind of process where as soon as someone starts communicating aggressively, it very likely will prompt the other person to escalate their communication, and things just kind of rise and rise and rise, and the outcomes are usually not what either person wants, so. Yeah, that sounds like what you're describing as well.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：But it sounds like overall, you don't. You mostly don't kind of associate yourself with this kind of communication.
Client：No, not really. Yeah, I don't like to do that because. I don't know, I just. Because I wouldn't like everybody, especially more lately since I feel like my people doing it to me, like, it kind of. It irritates me, so I wouldn't want to do it like other people. It's not showing because I don't. I just kind of messed up, in my opinion. I don't know, I just. I wouldn't like, you know, I already don't like being told things. I feel like somebody would feel the same way.
Counselor：Yeah. Yeah. And that's a sense of empathy, understanding why someone might not want to be. To be communicated with in that way.
Client：Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：And then the last. Last style of communication we're going to talk about is assertive communication, which is someone expressing their thoughts, their feelings, what they want directly to the other person, and doing it in very clear terms, but also being respectful and acknowledging what the other person's rights and what their feelings might be. So, you know, communicating in a. In a calm, calm manner, not using threats, are raising their voice, but also not diluting their own. Their own message, what they want to get across. So it's a very. It's a. It's a big compromise between what you want, what the other person wants, and then meeting in the middle to try to find the best solution. So.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Would you say that you, you associate with that kind of communication?
Client：Yeah, I mean, I. I think myself. I try that. I think it's just, like, hard, though, at times. Cause, like I said, it's like, I feel like, you know, and, you know, you have people see you in a certain way. Like, my friends, like, they know I use. So it's like, I think they're, like, aggressive about it towards me, and so it's like, I don't. I don't want to kind of get. I try not to, like, I don't want to, like, even get myself trying to even talk to them about things because I feel like they're not going to, like, listen to me anyway. So it's like, what's the point of having conversations with them? Um, but, yeah, I mean, I guess I could try, you know, like, a little bit more to, like, kind of tell them how I feel about things and see if they can get me a bit more. Because, you know, otherwise, I don't think it goes anywhere. It's just kind of like, I don't, like. Like I said, it's like I don't want to list. Hear their advice because I feel like it's kind of just coming straight at me. Like, I mean, I know they're my friends and, you know, I do. I, you know, I do like them, but at the same time, it's like, you know, they're not my parents, so my own person, I mean, I. Look, I know, I know I got an issue. I mean, hey, that's why I'm, like, here. But, yeah, no, I think it's just. I think it's just kind of getting past that, maybe getting past that whole, like, idea that there, I can't talk with them or it's not worth it. I'm just trying to, like, just trying to. Trying to make an effort, you know, to, like, compromise about things or whatnot. So. Yeah.
Counselor：Yeah, that makes sense. So you feel like they're not always very sensitive to what. What you may be feeling at that moment?
Client：Yeah, I mean, because, you know, like, they're all, like, from what I know is, I don't think any of them might really have an issue. Like, I do, I guess you could say, like, they don't use. So, I mean, you know, so I guess they. I don't know if they just look at me and, like, why? Like, I. I guess in a sense of, like, why I'm doing this and, uh, you know, like that, I, you know, like, I'm better than this and, you know, like, I guess, you know, I know I am, technically, but it's just, I don't. That's the way they kind of. I don't like to bring that stuff up with them because personally, just, you know, like, they're my friends, so I just. I don't want to, like, I don't want things to become, like, heated between us and, you know, like, I don't want to, like, ruin our friendships or anything like that, you know? Like, so I just. That's why I just try to, like, not really get myself involved and talking them about those things.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：You know, it's not worth it. It's, like, it's not gonna go, and it's not gonna make me feel any better anyway, so.
Counselor：Yeah. Okay, so you feel like they can be more aggressive more often than you. Than you are?
Client：Yeah, I would say so.
Counselor：Okay, so basically, the four. There are some primary purposes of an aspect of assertive communication, which is informing others of what you think and what you feel. Informing them in a way that is not hurtful to them and asking others to change their behavior that affects you, and then accepting what others say or request from you and also rejecting, if as necessary. So those are the kind of main principles of assertive communication. So how do you feel now that we've gone over those various types of communication?
Client：Yeah, I mean, I guess it kind of, like, gives me a better idea about, like, how, like, in different situations, I can be. I think, like, the assertiveness, I have to kind of, like, try to work on, like, especially around my friends because, you know, like I said, I don't, like, I kind of just try to, like, turn up, you know, just kind of close off with them about, like, different things because I just don't want to hear what they have to say. And so I don't. I don't want to deal with it. So I kind of just. I don't, like, tackle it. I guess you could say maybe with them about, like, different things. So, you know, maybe that's, you know, something, I guess hope maybe if I gave it a shot and sat down with them and talked, they could understand it a bit more. Maybe they would be, wouldn't be as, like, on me about it. So, yeah, I feel like that could be helpful. It's just, you know, just, it's, it's hard because I don't want to. I don't want to, like, you know, make things. Like, I don't want to make a mess out of things, you know, because, you know, they're good friends of mine, so it's. I don't want to create tension, essentially, I guess you could say, but it's. I'm saying that, yeah. Like, they annoy me, but. Yeah, I know it sounds stupid, but.
Counselor：No, it doesn't sound stupid at all. You care about your relationships with them.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So would you. How would you feel about doing a quick, another quick role play, wherever I might be playing the part of one of your friends who is communicating with you in a way that you might feel in that, that sense of disrespect and insensitivity, and then you can try to practice some, some assertive communication. Would you be okay with that?
Client：Yeah, that's, that's fine. Sure.
Counselor：Okay. Okay. So based on what you've talked about with your, your relationship with their friends, I'm going to try to try to channel that and, you know, replicate that for you.
Client：All right.
Counselor：Hey, Paul, have you used this week? I'm. I get the feeling that you have, and I just, I can't. I need to talk to you about it.
Client：I mean, I don't. Listen, I mean, listen, I don't want to, I just don't want to, like, I don't want to talk about that right now. It's kind of, uh, you know, like you'd rather just kind of just chill, if that's okay.
Counselor：Well, I can't. I can't really chill, because it's, it's, it's just on my mind a lot, and, like, you understand, like, what. What you're doing, right? Like, you can't keep going like this. It's just, it's, it's, it's not you.
Client：Yeah. I mean, listen, um. Listen, man, I mean, I. Look, I appreciate you, like, kind of telling me this. I get it. I just, I just want you to kind of, like, understand that, you know? Look, I'm working on, I'm working on myself right now. I'm actually you know, I am, I am seeing somebody right now to kind of, like, work on myself with this, and I just, you know, I understand, like, your concern. I get it. I just want you to, like, I want you to just, you know, be aware that, you know, I'm doing. I'm. I need to, you know, I do need to work on myself, and, you know, I just, I just want to, you know, you're. Listen, man, I appreciate you're a good friend of mine, but I just feel like, you know, like you're just coming on a little too strong at times. I'm like, you know, it doesn't help. I'm ready. Feeling kind of low about, like, what I'm doing, and I just, you know, I'm aware of what I need to fix. I just, you know, I just need some space on that. This. All I ask is, you know, can you, like, just kind of try to support me? You know, it's not like I'm not trying. Like, I'm trying, like, you know, it's. I've been through a lot through the past couple of years, so I, you know, I just, I don't, I don't want you to think that, like, I'm not, like, you know, that this is, that's all I do. I mean, you know, I just, you know, I want to be able to talk to you as, like, a friend where he understands more than just, like, kind of, like, coming at me like my parent, you know? So I. Sorry. I'm not trying to be harsh or anything. I just, you know, I just, I need. I need you to kind of, like, come down a level for me and, like, kind of, you know, see where I'm at.
Counselor：You. You don't think I've really been supporting you?
Client：I mean, no, not saying you haven't. It's just sometimes I feel like it's like you're you, you know, it's like you're in my face, you know, like, I feel like you just kind of, like you've seen, like, on the outside what's going on, and. But, I mean, you know, I feel like, and I get it. It's like, that's partially my fault, too. I feel like we haven't talked about, like, what's really bothering me and, like, why. Why I'm this way, you know? So maybe, I guess, you know, like, we should. It would help if we talked about that, so, like, you know, you can understand where I'm coming from a bit more, you know? So. Because, you know, like, I don't think I. We probably, you know, I don't think we've really talked about that because, you know, I don't like to really say much because I'd rather not, like, get in. I don't like to kind of open up about these things because, you know, I. It's embarrassing, but, you know, if. If you're willing to listen, you know, I'd be, you know, I would be, you know, would want to share with you because, you know, you're a good friend of mine. Just. I want you just kind of, like, understand a bit more.
Counselor：Yeah. I wanted to have you to talk to you about it, and I wanted you to talk to me about it, but it just seems like you're always kind of unwilling to. But I guess. I guess maybe I tend to come on a bit stronger than I maybe should, and maybe I haven't been totally, totally receptive to what. To what you're going to, so. Yeah. Yeah, I think that, yeah, I'd really like to sit down sometime and really kind of talk about what you're. What you might be going through, so.
Client：All right, cool. Thanks, man. Yeah. It's just been hard because, you know, I just been dealing with issue myself, and I don't know what to say. And, you know, like I said, I don't want to, like, kind of ruin what we have and everything like that, but, you know, I just. I just want you to kind of, like, try to, you know, understand what's going on with me a bit more, so that's all.
Counselor：Okay. How did that feel? Better.
Client：I mean, obviously good. It's just, you know, like, the only thing of course I think about is, like, I'm hoping, like, if I kind of, like, talk about that, like, that my friends or whoever I'm talking to is going to be receptive to what I'm saying, you know, I mean, sometimes I feel like, you know, I don't know because I could say that, and then they may not really want to deal with it, so, like, because everybody's different, but I I guess I have to try or. And kind of do that because then, otherwise, I'm not gonna know, so.
Counselor：Yeah. And I can tell from. From that, I I saw that. I noticed that you. You kind of started more of a passive kind of style where you just kind of didn't want to talk about it. You were resistant to talking about it, but then as it kind of went along, you got more. More assertive and more. More clear about what you were thinking, what you were feeling, and how the other person was affecting you. So I thought that was a really good starting point.
Client：So cool. Thanks.
Counselor：All right, so we're coming to the end of this session. So we've talked about first we went over last week, becoming more aware of your triggers, what you're thinking, the thoughts that come to mind, how the cravings, behaviors, how you act, and then the positive and negative results of those behaviors. And then today we went over these different styles of communication. We role played a little bit and kind of analyzed maybe how you tend to associate with communication the ways that you tend to communicate most often. So, yeah, I want to just. How did you feel today's session went?
Client：Yeah, no, I think it went pretty good. Honestly, got some good information from it today. So, yeah, it just makes me maybe try to start working on that with, like, talking, communicating my friends that are just kind of letting them know how I feel. And it's going to be hard, I feel like. But, I mean, I got to try, I guess. So, you know, I'll do, you know, see what. I'll see how it goes.
Counselor：Yeah. Yeah. And again, this is going to take practice. It's. It's. It's difficult work, but, you know, I'm never going to ask you. I'm not always going to ask you to do something that's easy, but I'm always going to ask you something to do something that you are able to do. So. Yeah, so I guess next week we're going to. We're going to talk more about social aspect, building social supports. And this can kind of go along a long way with that, with enhancing the level of support you feel from your friends by also communicating with them in a more assertive way. And they kind of, you know, the different sessions kind of build off each other, you know?
Client：Right.
Counselor：And each one improves on the other one. So. Okay, so I guess for the next week, if you could maybe make a list of different interactions you have with other people and kind of play out or write out what. Reflect on. Sorry, reflect on what. How you felt you communicated based on what we talked about today, and then maybe think about, okay, how could I have done something differently? What do I think? What went well in this interaction? What went not so well? And then next week we can come back and talk about it a little bit. Does that sound. Oh, how does that sound?
Client：Yeah, I could do that. It's fine.
Counselor：Okay. So thank you for coming again to this week. It's good to talk to you again, and I'll see you again next week.
Client：All right, cool. Sounds good. Thanks. Bye.