Counselor：Hi, Jodie. Nice to see you again. How have you been since I saw you last?
Client：Yeah, I've been fine. Been sticking to the plan. So it's been going well?
Counselor：Oh, the plan that the hospital set you?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay, fantastic. And how have you been finding that?
Client：Yeah, it's been, it's been good. I've been trying to follow it, but last week wasn't very good. I had a bit of a bad day, but since then I've been fine, so it's okay.
Counselor：Okay, so tell me a bit more about that bad day. I mean, what did you eat on that day?
Client：I don't think I had anything.
Counselor：Okay, so you just ate nothing at all?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. I mean, tell me a bit more about why was that day difficult? Was there anything that had been happening around that time?
Client：It's been quite busy at school because we've got our exams and we had, like, a test the next day, so I think I was just a bit, like, worried about that, so I was trying to focus on that instead.
Counselor：So you were feeling a bit anxious about the exam that was coming up. Was there anything else that was worrying you?
Client：No, I think we had, well, we had 6th form applications due in and that was coming up in the next couple of days and I didn't really want to fill in my application.
Counselor：So it sounds like there was a couple of things that were worrying you that were on your mind.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Which thing was worrying you more, do you think?
Client：Probably the 6th form. Yeah, the 6th form one.
Counselor：Okay. What kind of. How did you feel about that? When, when we talk about that now and when that's brought up, what kind of emotions do you experience?
Client：I don't really want to start 6th form yet. It's quite soon. But I don't really want to. I mean, I've got exams first, so I've got to think about those. But I don't really want to go to 6th form at the minute.
Counselor：Okay. So what is it about sick form that makes you not want to go?
Client：I have to start over again and make new friends and like, a new routine and stuff, and I don't have, I don't really feel ready for that yet.
Counselor：What do you think might happen when you have to make new friends and start a new routine?
Client：I don't. I don't know if anyone's gonna like me, like, if they might not want to talk to me and then I won't be able to, like, focus on my work and get through it.
Counselor：So you're worried that you might not be able to make friends.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And you might not be able to focus on the work.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And how do you feel when you have those thoughts?
Client：A bit worried. I don't know what people are going to think, so I don't want to upset them and say anything wrong or do anything wrong.
Counselor：And I suppose I'm just trying to understand kind of because what you were just describing, that's more what I would kind of think of as being a thought, you know, worrying about what people might think and that people might think the wrong thing. And I suppose I'm wondering how you're feeling. You said you feel worried. Are there any other motions that you feel about it?
Client：I feel it makes me feel a bit sick inside having to talk to new people.
Counselor：So you feel a bit worried and a bit sick. How easy is it for you to think? Think about those kind of emotions and those feelings that you're describing.
Client：I don't really think about them. I just try and ignore them and get on with what I need to do.
Counselor：Were you aware that you were feeling worried on the day that you stopped eating? Were you conscious that you were feeling anxious and worried?
Client：No, I didn't feel worried that day. I was just trying to get on with my work and I actually felt bit better that day.
Counselor：Okay. So why do you think that you turned to stopping eating? Because, I mean, now, I suppose, now that you're aware that you are feeling worried about sick form and about the exam, why do you think that you opted to stop eating on that day? What was it about that you think that you thought might be helpful?
Client：I didn't feel like I needed to because I didn't feel hungry, so I just wanted to do my work. And then it made me feel better and I felt more focused on my work, so I thought I should carry on with that because I needed to revise.
Counselor：So you thought it helped you to focus and you felt like it helped you. Do you feel like it did help you with the revision?
Client：Yeah, I was more focused on the work I needed to do.
Counselor：Okay, so you felt like it improved your focus as well?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. Is there any other reasons why you think you might have turned to constricting your diet at that time?
Client：I think my father wanted me to. My dad, he wanted me to focus on my work because of my exams, so I didn't want to upset him, and I thought I needed to do well in the test, so I was trying to do that.
Counselor：So you thought that by not eating, you would help yourself to do better in the exam and kind of please your dad?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And do you think that it was helpful constricting your diet?
Client：It seemed to be. I got more work done during the day because I didn't get distracted by anything, so I was revising all day, and then the test went really well, so it should be good. Should get a good mark for it.
Counselor：You seem like you may be getting a little bit anxious right now. I notice that you're shaking your leg. Is there anything that you're worried about right now?
Client：I just don't want to upset my parents and make them feel like I'm a disappointment to them if I don't do well.
Counselor：Okay. Is that something that you're often worried about?
Client：Usually. Because I don't want them to think like, they shouldn't have had me because I'm so worthless to them.
Counselor：Okay. That's quite a heavy worry to be carrying. Really? Have you talked to them about this worry? No. You haven't said it to them before? How do you think they might react if they did know that you felt this way?
Client：They'd probably say, like, as long as I do well, I'll be fine. Like, and they'll love me if I do well in my exams and go to good 6th form and get good grades.
Counselor：So you think that maybe they wouldn't love you if you didn't do well? Go to a good sick form?
Client：I don't see how they would want to if I was so worthless and useless at whatever I do.
Counselor：Okay, so it sounds like you're really worried about losing your parents love and approval, and you think that by passing these exams you will kind of secure that love and approval from them.