Counselor：Hi, Ann. How you doing today?
Client：Good.
Counselor：Doing well?
Client：Yeah, I guess so. I've been working still on the fear of leaving the home for extended periods of time, like vacation, and it's been a little harder recently because I have this planned trip with a friend of mine coming up in a few months, and that's kind of been weighing on my mind.
Counselor：Where's the trip to Georgia, and how long will you be there?
Client：She wants to go, like, six days, but, yeah, I'm not sure. With work and school and everything, I can make the full six days, and plus, I'm a little nervous to go that long.
Counselor：So that's a long time for you.
Client：It is, yes.
Counselor：So when did you discover this trip.
Client：Was going to be actually last? Just a few days ago. She messaged me and said, hey, you want to go with me? And we'll go golfing and swimming? I love golfing. Like, you know, I want to go, but I just have these, just, you know, a little nervous about leaving.
Counselor：A little nervous. So when she made that call just a couple days ago, what was the first thought you had?
Client：God, I can't go that long. That was my first thought, that's too long. But then it was like, wow, this would be great. I want to go down there golfing so bad and get away from the cold weather. So, I mean, my immediate thought was, no, not that long, but, yes, I want to go.
Counselor：All right, so you had two kind of conflicting thoughts, right. So one. One is, I could never go that long. Six days, way too long. And the other one is, that would be enjoyable. You enjoy that?
Client：Absolutely, yeah.
Counselor：So which way are you leaning right now?
Client：I want to go to go, but maybe not for six days. Maybe just like a long weekend.
Counselor：Three, four days.
Client：Two would be ideal, but two would probably be idea, but two or three days. Yeah.
Counselor：So what do you think is causing this worry about being gone more than two days?
Client：I don't know. I mean, I've always, as a late teenager in my twenties, I've always had just nervous to leave home. As much as I love being home, I love to travel, too, and do different things. It's just, I guess I'm just afraid something to happen when I'm not around.
Counselor：So you're afraid something will happen to your house or.
Client：Well, I have pets, so I worry about them. My parents are getting older, so I worry about them mainly, like, my immediate family, mainly, I guess, my dad, because he's had a history of heart attacks, and then my pets, that's just worry something will happen. I won't be there.
Counselor：And how about when you were younger, you said this problem's been out for a while.
Client：It's the same thing.
Counselor：The same thing. So mostly family and now some pets.
Client：Well, I had pets then, too.
Counselor：You had pets then, too? Okay, so that's really what's bothering you here, is that you'll be away, and that's when something will happen and it'll be something bad. What about coming back? Like, you can come back?
Client：Yeah, like, I'm ready to come back, but then I'm missing home. Like, I want to go back to my family and everything's okay, but I miss, you know, where I just left because it's away from home. I know it sounds really conflicting and weird, but, you know, I like to get away. I enjoy being away from this small town.
Counselor：So, yes, you have feelings that are fighting one another.
Client：Absolutely.
Counselor：And right now, the feeling, the thought, anyway, of, you know, I would like to go on a trip is winning, but the fear thought is kind of dragging you down. So what's the sensation? Anxiety.
Client：Yeah. I get anxious. Yeah. My heart gets. Feels like it's heavy. My chest heavy. And I just. All these thoughts go through my mind, like, you know, I know my parents. Somebody can watch my pets, but they may not take care of them like I would. I don't know, it's just. I mean, you know, they've always. They'll take care of them. I know, but they'll miss me and they might tear my house up. I don't know. All these thoughts go through my mind that seem crazy to me.
Counselor：So it seems like an endless stream of worries.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Surrounding family and the pets and what might happen. So really, that's. That's it. Right. It's what might happen. It's the uncertainty.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So has anything ever happened?
Client：No. No.
Counselor：So, so far, all this worrying, anxiety really hasn't paid any dividends.
Client：No.
Counselor：Do you end up going on the trips anyway?
Client：Yes. And now that I'm older, when I was younger, I probably wouldn't like an overnight, but now that I'm older. Yes, I do. I just say I got to live my life and it'll be okay. I just try to tell myself they're in good hands. If something happens, somebody will call me. But then I feel like, oh, but I'm going to be hours away. I'm a plane ride away. And then I get thinking about that, but I do go.
Counselor：But you didn't in the past.
Client：No.
Counselor：So something changed. What changed?
Client：I don't know. I really I don't know. I don't know what what made a difference. Maybe I just feel more and, I don't know, say in control. But now that I'm living on my own, so that's what I wouldn't go is when I lived at home with my parents still, which seems weird because somebody was always there to look after my animals and. But now that I'm living on my own, maybe I just feel yden more responsible that I have to go do these things. I really don't know what changed.
Counselor：All right. So you're not sure what changed. But you used to not go. Now you do go. So when you're down there or wherever you're going, the trip, you're feeling better, like you're enjoying yourself, but you're also worried at the same time.
Client：Not too. Once I get there, I'm usually okay. Maybe the first night I get a little worried. And then maybe when I'm getting ready to come home, I'm, like, a little anxious. I'm ready to get home to make sure everything's okay.
Counselor：And the rest of the time I'm usually okay.
Client：I want to get some alcohol involved, so it kind of limits my anxiety. But once I get into, like, playing the golf and all that, I really do allow myself to enjoy it. It's just. It seems like it's going and coming. That's all.
Counselor：Right. So the problem really isn't when you're there leading up to the problem is now leading up to. Right.
Client：Exactly.
Counselor：And maybe just the first half day or day when you're there. Maybe the last half day or day.
Client：You'Re there, it's like a plane. Like, I don't have a problem riding, like, flying out, but it's the thinking, like, while I'm waiting for the plane, like, what if a terrorist is on there? What if we crash? I'll think about all that before. But once I'm there and on the plane, it's like, right. Take off. I'm fine. I'm completely fine. I'm not anxious. It's leading up to the actual event that makes me anxious.
Counselor：It's just anticipation. So that's the worst part. So the period between now and when you leave is going to be the worst part?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：But you'll probably still go.
Client：Probably. But I'll have changed my mind probably a dozen times before I actually say, yes, I'm going.
Counselor：And when you do go, you have a good time. And the probability of something happening that you're worried about based on the history seems low.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Something could happen, certainly, but it hasn't so far. All right, so there's a few angles here. So what happens if you go down there and a bad scenario or worst case scenario does happen?
Client：I don't know. I try not to think that far. If I get thinking about it, I try to, like, shut it out. I don't want to think about the worst. I guess the worst. I'll get on the plane and come home and I'll deal with it then.
Counselor：All right, so you'll return and the best case scenario would be you enjoy yourself, which is the more likely. Historically, that's the more likely scenario.
Client：Yeah. But it still doesn't stop me from worrying when I get these trips planned.
Counselor：Yeah. So the probabilities of it really doesn't. That doesn't alleviate the worry. The worry is still there, even though, you know, the worry is probably going to transition to enjoyment and looking forward to that. That doesn't.
Client：No, not at all.
Counselor：That doesn't relieve anything.
Client：Not at all.
Counselor：So what are you thinking when you're thinking about the trip now, if you were to think about getting ready to go on this trip, what would go through your mind? What specific thoughts?
Client：I gotta get my house cleaned up and make sure my animals are every. They have enough food and, like, preparing to leave.
Counselor：Preparing is productive, right? Yeah. That makes sense.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：How about the thoughts that you feel more connected to? The worrying.
Client：Probably. Like, I want to. I want to say. I don't know. I really. It's kind of hard. Like, I want to. Like, I can't say bye enough to my parents or I can't, you know, say bye enough to my pets. Like, I feel like I don't. I don't know. I don't. I really. That's, I guess, part of the problem. I don't know what I'm connecting it to. I just get really anxious.
Counselor：So if you don't tell them goodbye enough times.
Client：Yeah. I don't know. Maybe. I know it sounds so.
Counselor：Well, it sounds like maybe if you don't say. If you don't say goodbye enough times and settle that. That you'll feel guilty if something happens, maybe like you regret it.
Client：Maybe. I don't know. I just know that's when I. That's what I think about when. That's one thing that first comes to my mind when you ask me to connect the thoughts to the worry. And I think about telling everybody by.
Counselor：So that. So that's a focal point of this anxiety in some way. Right.
Client：Like, let him go for a few days.
Counselor：And the way you start to let go is when you tell them. Tell them goodbye. So what do you find yourself doing? You say goodbye and then leave and then come back or call them up?
Client：No, I just finally say bye. I'll talk to you later. Love you. You know, I'll check in when I land or whatever. And then that's it. Then it's like. Like I just have to try to breathe and just put those thoughts behind me. Because once I say it, it's like, okay, that's it, I'm gone.
Counselor：But your. But your thoughts are still coming. Thoughts are still coming. And say, you should have said goodbye one more time.
Client：No, it's not. I don't know. I just. No, that doesn't come to my mind.
Counselor：That you didn't say goodbye well enough.
Client：I don't know.
Counselor：I'm trying to. What's the property of. What's the property of saying goodbye that you feel like you're not doing?
Client：Maybe it's just the fact that I'm leaving and I shouldn't leave. Maybe that way you say that. Yeah, maybe I feel like I. Maybe it's just a guilt of leaving.
Counselor：So the act of leaving itself leaves you guilty. And what are you guilty of?
Client：Not being there if something happens.
Counselor：So abandoning them, maybe for a short time. Neglecting them for a short time. Is that what it felt like when you were younger? When you weren't able to travel? When it did stop you, anxiety did stop you?
Client：Probably. Maybe I did feel guilty.
Counselor：And now you're in, would you say, more of a caregiver role than you were then?
Client：Maybe a little bit. I mean, I've always been. I'm the youngest of me and my sister, but my parents have always looked up to me to be the responsible one and make sure everything's taken care of. So I probably kind of allowed myself to take on that role of the caregiver more so. Or be the more responsible one of the two.
Counselor：So to be the responsible one, there needs to be guilt when you leave.
Client：I guess maybe I should stay home and be responsible. And they don't make me feel guilty. They say, go have a good time. Your babies will be okay. We'll take care of them. I mean, I know they're in good hands. That's what makes it so difficult. I know they'll be okay, but I just feel like I probably shouldn't go.
Counselor：So there's not another person driving this guilt towards you. That's me that's coming in from inside.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So if I. If I leave, well, I'm responsible. And if I leave, something bad will happen and that'll be on me.
Client：Yeah. I wasn't there to fix it or take care of it or make it better. Like, I put it on somebody else that have to do with that? Yeah.
Counselor：So fear of being caught is irresponsible?
Client：Maybe, yeah. If something happened to my pets, then my parents, I know they'll take care of them, but they would have to be the one doing that. I wouldn't be there for them and I'd want to be there if something happened to my dad, it'd be on my mom and I'd want to be there to help and support and, you know, do what I can.
Counselor：And you could be. If you left, it would just take you a day's travel or whatever, however far away. Yeah, but that's. That's still doesn't help relieve anxiety. No one even come back. Doesn't help?
Client：No. Really? No. Because it's like I want immediate access. Like I want to be able to be right there within minutes if they need me.
Counselor：Have you ever taken a trip that was like within less than 4 hours driving distance or something? That's overnight. Does that cause the same anxiety? It does, but you can get back fairly quickly?
Client：I mean, not. It's not as bad, but yeah, there's. If I go stay with a friend for like an overnight, there's. On the way up. Sometimes I'm thinking I should just stay home or I could be right in the same town. Sometimes that if I'm. I wake up at five in the morning, I just get up and go home because I just start feeling really anxious and I want to be home.
Counselor：So the closer you are, it helps a little, but it sounds like a good part of that anxiety is still there. So it really doesn't matter where you go. It's the fact that you're not home, the fact that you're not able to fully be responsible in the way that you view it.
Client：When I work 20 hours shifts and I have to work the overnight, I will most of the time take my break and go home in between the check on the house and feed my pets.
Counselor：So that's a long shift. So a 20 hours shift. At what point do you become anxious? When do you start to notice those thoughts?
Client：Probably usually like six, 7 hours into. It just depends. Like now it's getting dark, so when it kind of gets dark, if I don't leave the light on or something, I get a little anxious. I feel like I need to go home and leave the light on. And I would just let my pets know I'm coming back. It's weird, but I know they miss me. But if I'm busy, then I don't really think about it. So if I'm busy at work doing something, I don't really think about it until I stop what I'm doing or I slow down and I'm thinking, wow, I got ten more hours or eight more hours. Sometimes I go home, sometimes I don't. Sometimes it's worse than others.
Counselor：All right, so if you're busy at work, the same reality exists, meaning your pets are alone. But the way you're responding to it is different.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：You're less anxious.
Client：Because I know I'm close. I can get there. I know I'm in control. To be able to go there, to a degree.
Counselor：Well, but let's say not at work. Let's say when you're on the vacations, in those days in the middle, when you're enjoying yourself, is that a distraction? Like, the more you enjoy yourself, the less you're. Yeah, but the same reality exists. They're alone. So really it's your way of. It's your way of viewing things that's leading to your anxiety. It's not necessarily what's actually happening.
Client：That's my perception.
Counselor：Perception of what's happening or could happen. I guess in this case, not so much what is happening as what you worry could happen.
Client：Yeah, definitely.
Counselor：Because nothing's happened yet.
Client：No, not yet.
Counselor：So how many? Well, I guess there's a few different. There's a few different issues here. Right. How many vacations do you take a year?
Client：I don't really take long vacations. I've taken only. I've only taken like, two week long vacations ever for, like, five, six days, and I was fine. Well, same anxiety when I was younger. And now it's more like long weekends or, you know, at night here or there. I don't really take long vacations, but probably maybe three or four times a year I might go away overnight versus just. Just a friend's house, like an actual vacation where I go into a city or something.
Counselor：So a small proportion of the time. So just looking in terms of probabilities, your risk is very low because you're not going that much. But the other issue is that even at work, you're still having these same feelings. And even for short trips, you're still having the same feelings. So you're really living with anxiety much of the time. And it's been this way for years.
Client：Yeah, probably since a teenager. And it hasn't stopped me. I've always worked. I mean, now I work more than ever. It doesn't stop me from working. Picking up over time, working three jobs, it doesn't stop me. But I mean, like I said, as a teenager and early twenties, it, I would just be like, on my way out somewhere, stay the night with my boyfriend. I was like, no, I can't do it. And I turn around and come home. But now that doesn't happen. I may not go for a week long vacation, but I'll go for a few nights.
Counselor：So your functioning has improved and it's actually pretty good. Working a lot, sounds like. Yeah, but it's this uncomfortable anxiety. It's painful for you?
Client：Yeah, I mean, it doesn't, like I said, it doesn't really seem to stop me from working, obviously, because I work, it's just leading up to leaving for work or going on a vacation.
Counselor：All right, so let's say, let's look at what you know is going to be a long work day. So think of, like, what they said, 20 hours shift. It's a lot of time. You have a 20 hours shift and say you're getting ready for work and you're thinking about that you're going to be gone for 20 hours. You do think about that, I imagine, right. You have to probably make certain plans to be gone that long. What's going through your mind as you're getting ready for work?
Client：Well, I'm thinking about making sure I have everything I need for work. You know, do I have usually take my dinner things? I may have to do it when I get to work. You know, check emails or give, you know, do whatever I have to do. And then I just make sure, you know, my animals are taken care of, make sure they got food and water and the house is cleaned out, everything's put away, you know, stoves turned off. It sounds silly, but, you know, stuff that they can't get into. That's why I just make sure all that's taken care of. Care of the best I can. Like, I'm trying to prevent something that might happen if I see something out, like a, I don't know, if I have flowers sitting around, I'll make sure they're put away because I can't get into them. So I just try to prevent anything I can from happening or could happen.
Counselor：Do you feel less anxious when you put those prevention. Okay, so that helps. So physically preparing your house so that your pets are safer that helps you. So what else is going through your mind? So you do that. So you take all the precautions you can to keep them safe and prepare your dinner for work and everything. So what's the next thought?
Client：I got to go to work. And then I just think about, I'll come home later, you know, if I get a break. I mean, usually I do, especially if I do the overnight. I got downtime, so I'll run home and check on them, and then I'm off to work, and then I kind of forget about it. And like I said, some nights it's better. Not every night I come home and check on them, but some nights I just get started, feel anxious and get thinking about them, and I go home and check on them.
Counselor：So every bit of time when you felt anxious and you wanted to check on them, but you couldn't leave work?
Client：Oh, yeah. If I'm out working with clients, yeah.
Counselor：So what happens then in terms of thinking and feeling?
Client：I don't dwell on it because my focus is with the client. So I just kind of think about it. I need to get home, but, you know, and I just focus back on the client. I don't let it, you know, overwhelm me or well.
Counselor：So it doesn't change your functioning, but not the anxiety. Is there anxiety associated with it?
Client：It goes away. I mean, what I'm thinking about, but then it goes away.
Counselor：All right, so depending on what you're thinking about, that can change the leveling you're experiencing. So we talked about in how cognitive therapy works before in other sessions. Right. And of course, thinking, you believe is a important component of it. You can change the way you feel and what you do. Behavior through thinking. So at some point, like in your workday, you're having a thought. I'm to guess you're having a thought that says that I need to get back there and check on them or something like that, or they might not be okay or something.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. So that is the. That is the thought you're having something like that.
Client：I have an older cat. I mean, he's really old. So I think we know what if, you know, he's. Something's happened to him. I mean, I don't necessarily think of him dying, but I think, you know, what if he needs. Because he is. He's really old. So I do think about him.
Counselor：You'll have that thought like, you have a cat that's advanced in age. Something could happen. The cats could have gotten into stuff, and that anxiety will either persist and you'll act on it by driving home or you'll become distracted by the demands of your work and anxiety will go away.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So you can see the power of thinking in all this. Right. So the reality of your cat's health and well being hasn't changed the way you view it has changed the way you think about it has changed. So we talked about before this idea of the adaptive response. Right. So the thoughts you're having now that lead to the anxiety, what we believe could lead to anxiety, they're automatic, right. They're just popping in your head. They're triggered by certain things, like getting ready to leave for work and being at work a while, looking at the time and realizing something we have for the cats.
Client：Right.
Counselor：But that's an automatic. That just comes without, like, you can't necessarily stop.
Client：Right. It just comes naturally when I'm getting.
Counselor：Ready to leave, and then the anxiety is right there. So the adaptive response we also call self talk. That's a thought that you can give, that you can create consciously. You can think to yourself. So it's not automatic. It's not an adjustment of an automatic thought. It's a thought that you can deliberately think, almost like repeating a sentence that you've memorized. You can at will choose to do that. Does that make sense? So I want to make sure I draw the distinction. Some thoughts just pop in other thoughts. You deliberately think. What we found is if you have a thought that you deliberately think, we call the adaptive response, it can counter the feelings caused by the automatic flux. Essentially. You're challenging. You're disputing that.
Client：Automatic thoughts.
Counselor：You're disputing your own thoughts. Yeah. So I want you to work with me to develop these adaptive responses. I want you to have most of the say, all the say if you want in them, because I think that you can develop ones that are useful to you. But just to give you an example, when you have the thought that the older cat could be sick, an adaptive response could be. Well, could be a wide variety of thoughts, but one could be, it's not likely. Or if it is likely, he'll probably be okay. Oh, it's a he or she he. Okay. He'll probably be okay till I get home. Another adaptive response could be. It would be sad and unfortunate something happened, but I have my work responsibilities, and at some point I have to leave the cats alone.
Client：Well, I do tell them that. I tell them, like, when I feel like they're, well, someone will. Sometimes they'll run from me when I try to kiss goodbye and I'm like, oh, no, but I have to go to work because you all have to eat. I know it sounds silly, but I do tell myself that, and then that kind of makes it does less of anxiety. I didn't realize that's kind of what I was doing, but I do do that sometimes.
Counselor：So you were already adaptively responding.
Client：Yeah, but I didn't realize that's what I was doing. But, yeah, I did say that to myself.
Counselor：To them.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Well, I think that's a productive adaptive response. You're right. If you don't earn an income, then they'll have worse problems.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：I can't take care of them being left alone. So really, through working, you're being more of service to them and protecting them more. So.
Client：Yeah, that's true. Never thought of it that way.
Counselor：So that might be one adaptive response you may want to consider applying when you have this feeling of.
Client：And then there's times I think, you know, they're just. Cats are probably glad I'm gone. They're probably happy because sometimes they're sleeping at home and I'm worried. I look and they're, like, literally waking up looking at me like, well, you're home. We were sleeping. So they're probably, like, glad I'm gone anyway. So.
Counselor：So they're not striking you as anxious when you get home?
Client：Yeah, well, sometimes.
Counselor：Sometimes.
Client：Sometimes after 20 hours shift. Yes, I have one of them. She won't. She won't let me sleep for the first hour. She literally will run around and get in the stuff. And I take it that she's mad because I've been gone, but she's fine.
Counselor：She continues to survive despite being perhaps upset with you for leaving.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So that could be another adoptive response that they may be enduring a mild stressor. But sometimes they're asleep when you get home.
Client：Yeah, that's true.
Counselor：How bad could it be for them?
Client：Yeah. And they don't know I'm worrying or anxious. They could care less. Like, they don't really know it's not bothering them.
Counselor：I mean, yeah, I mean, their level awareness is clearly different than yours. Right. So, yeah, I mean, that's another good adaptive response, that you have a much higher level of awareness, whereas you're not sure they have any awareness that their experience of anxiety or maybe a little bit with the one cat who runs around.
Client：I think they do. That's just me. I mean, an animal person, but I think they do. But, yeah, I probably give them think they have more feelings than what they probably do, but they're my kids. I treat them as kids. They're my kids. They're all, God, sure.
Counselor：They're important to you.
Client：Yeah, absolutely.
Counselor：So it's understandable that you would be anxious and have concerns and. But it also seems like you did make preparations to elevate their chances of having a successful experience. Right. Being okay. So you implement behaviors that are practical and that have worked, making the house safe and keeping the plants away from them. So I think one route here, if you're okay with it, would be to use work as kind of like the first point. I know you have the trip, and I know that appears to be causing more anxiety than going to work, but you have more chances. Well, in one way, you have more chances to test out these adaptive responses at work because it's more or less a daily thing. Right. Five days a week or whatever it is. So some of those adaptive responses that we kind of worked on together, you could apply those. And the thing about adaptive responses is they're not always short. The automatic thoughts could be short. They can even be images. They're not necessarily complete sentences. Maybe you have an image of your cat in an unfortunate situation. So it's not necessarily spelled out in English like a sentence. But adaptive responses, well, they could be images too. But the ones I'm talking about are, they're really sentences that you're repeating back consciously to yourself. So it's important to have them prepared and ready to go. So I often ask clients to kind of write them out and have them available so that when that thought comes about and it seems like you're pretty good at identifying it, you know what thoughts are triggering these anxiety, you would read eventually you would have to read it because you'd memorize it. But initially you'd read the automatic thought. I mean, I'm sorry, the adaptive response. And that would counter the automatic thought. Might not the first time, might not the second time, but over time we believe it. And I found that it changes how often and how intense the automatic thoughts come in. The conscious thinking, the adaptive responding, does that make sense?
Client：That does. Because I said, I kind of said these things to myself anyway. I just didn't realize that's what was probably lessening the anxiety, because I do say that these things to myself pretty frequently when I say I have to go to work or else you guys won't be able to be taken care of. Didn't even dawn on me that that's.
Counselor：You've already adapted. Yeah. You've already used cognitive behavioral techniques in a way to reduce anxiety. So what we're really doing is we're just expanding and formalizing what you've already been doing to achieve some success. Does that make sense?
Client：Definitely, yes.
Counselor：So if you could, between now and the next session, write down some of the adaptive responses that we discussed, the ones you already use, and then work to identify the automatic thoughts at work, and they come up. Work to identify them, and then consciously repeat those adaptive responses back when you have those thoughts. So you're pairing the self talk, the adaptive responses, with the automatic thoughts so that thought comes right, and then you have the adaptive response, and you're repeating it. You know, it's an internal. You're repeating it. You're stinking it unnecessarily out loud, although that would certainly be okay, too. Don't know how your coworkers, you know, respond something like that.
Client：So I know. I mean, I've threatened to put a camera in the house, so I can, like, there's a thing you can. You can remote access to your house, and there's a button your animal can push and call you. And I've joked about my work. I'm like, well, my cat calls me, y'all. You know, I really thought about it seriously, that I could check on him. That would lessen my anxiety. I wouldn't have to go home. I could just. Just look in and see what they're doing. I have thought of it. So my coworkers know I worry about them.
Counselor：So they're aware of that.
Client：Yeah. They would help support me and not be so anxious, probably.
Counselor：Yeah. And putting in a security type measure could lessen the anxiety, or it could create new anxiety.
Client：I know that's what I was thinking.
Counselor：Might make it worse, and I don't know which. So I think if you're okay with it, we'll start with the adaptive responses. Yes.
Client：Yeah, I'd rather do that first.
Counselor：Let's see how that works out. And we have other options, including security systems and such, to try out in the future if necessary. Let's try the adaptive responding and try to keep track of how well it works for you, like, what your thoughts and feelings were after you applied it.
Client：Should I, like, try to measure my level of anxiety?
Counselor：Absolutely.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Yeah. So, you know, maybe like, a one to ten with ten being the worst, and measure it when you first had that experience of it. I'm pretty sure you can measure fairly accurately. You've experienced it for a long time, you suffer with it for a long time. And then after applying the adaptive response, especially after a few minutes, applying it a few times, maybe a few different ones. See what it is then. And note that. And again, in the beginning, you might not see much of a change at all. So be persistent with it. Give it a chance to work and see how it does. Okay, we'll start there, and we'll kind of review how you do with that, and then we'll work toward the vacation. I know that's the bigger stressor. And we'll see what we can do in terms of planning adaptive responses for that.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Does that sound like a plan?
Client：Yes, definitely.