Counselor：Hello, Liz. How you doing today?
Client：I'm okay. How are you?
Counselor：I'm doing well, thanks for asking. How things been going?
Client：They've been all right.
Counselor：Last time we were talking, it sounds like you're still having some difficulty with the quizzes. Is that still the case?
Client：Yeah, I still panic when I take them.
Counselor：You still panic. Can you tell me about the process of taking the quizzes? I know we've touched on this a little bit before.
Client：Okay, so I'm going to class. I'm fine. I sit down to take the test. I'm fine. The test is in front of me. Question one. I'm not going to get that answer.
Counselor：So you're looking down. So you take these quizzes in class?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Like a paper, pencil. Okay. With other students around?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：All right. Is the. Is having other students around distracting to you?
Client：No, it's happened in previous online classes. It's the same.
Counselor：So it's. You're pretty sure it's the quiz itself and not some external. Okay. So it's paper and pencil. You're seated, you're in the room. Rooms relatively distraction free.
Client：Yeah. Yeah. Everybody's quiet.
Counselor：And you're looking down at, really the first item on the.
Client：Mm hmm.
Counselor：On the quiz. And what's happening? What's happening? Then as you look down, you read that first item. What's happening at a thought. We'll start a thought level. What's happening with your thinking?
Client：I'm thinking. I'm reading the question, and I'm thinking, oh, my God, there's. Okay, there's four. Okay. So it's got to be. It's got to be one of them. And I am not going to pick the right one. I'm going to think I picked the right one, and it's going to be the one that my second choice is, and I am not going to pick the right one.
Counselor：Okay, so your thought is that you're going to get. You're going to select the wrong response and therefore get that quiz item wrong. How about behavior? Like, do you notice anything physically going on as you're thinking about that quiz item and how you're gonna get it wrong?
Client：I'd say my palms are probably sweaty. Like, I'm probably a little tense.
Counselor：A little tense.
Client：Yeah. That's really it.
Counselor：All right. So what it could be is that this thought of I'm gonna get this item wrong is leading to these uncomfortable feelings, the physical feelings. So what happens when you answer item one like, you don't know if you have it right or wrong immediately? Right because it's a paper and pencil. So you answer item one, and you move on to item two. What happens then?
Client：It starts all over again. I'm already, like, well, I already got the first one wrong, and now I'm. My chances are higher of getting this one wrong.
Counselor：So you feel like it because you. Because you thought that you got the first one wrong, that your chances of getting the second one wrong actually increase?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：Like, I get one wrong the whole test, it's all gonna be wrong.
Counselor：Have you ever had a quiz that you've taken where you were confident that you got the first item right?
Client：I'm sure I have. I can't remember any.
Counselor：But eventually you're going to come to one item that you're going to have these doubts about?
Client：Yes. Inevitably it happens.
Counselor：There's going to be one that's maybe a little more difficult or difficult for you. So it seems like what you're saying is that when you reach that item where you have that thought from that point on, the next item is. Is more difficult because you're having a similar thought. Does that pattern continue throughout the test?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So explain to me what, like, let's just go with the example of the first item, like, just to keep it more simple. So you have the first item, and that didn't work out for you, that thought? Right. The second one, your thought was, I have even a greater chance of missing a. So what happens after you respond to that second item?
Client：It just compounds. I just start. I feel worse and worse as the quiz, as I continue.
Counselor：That's awful. So it's an awful feeling for me. Right. So by the time you get to.
Client：Item five or six, I'm convinced it's over. I've gotten a zero. If it's the. Yeah, if I start at the first, I've gotten a zero. I've gotten a bad grade.
Counselor：So that's what's on your mind. And how about those physical symptoms? Are they the same, different or new symptoms?
Client：If it, like. If it's. If it, like, starts early at the beginning of the test, my heart's, like, pounding at this point, but I still have the sweaty palms. I'm still, like, tensing.
Counselor：So it really just gets mentally and physically more unpleasant for you the whole time. So when you're saying panic, the panic's really occurring a few items in after you have the first one that you thought you missed. And this has been happening for a while, as you described, right?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Well, how about your grades? How have you actually been doing on the quizzes?
Client：I've been a pretty solid b student, so. And I feel. I wish I did better. I wish I got a's, but, I mean, these are fine. But when I take those quizzes, it's not. It doesn't. I don't know how it translates.
Counselor：How about your study habits? You consider yourself effective at studying?
Client：I've tried. I've taken a workshops on studying. I've. I. I think I'm pretty effective at studying. I've found what doesn't work. So I try to study by reading the chapters, taking outlines, reviewing flashcards, which has, I think, the best results, but.
Counselor：Okay, so your study habits are good, right. And your quiz scores are good, but you're still having these distressing thoughts and these uncomfortable physical sensations when you take the quizzes.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Is that about right?
Client：Yeah, that's absolutely right.
Counselor：So really you don't necessarily need your performance to change. You just. You just need your thoughts and feelings and behaviors to change.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So how you. How you're reacting to the quizzes maybe?
Client：Yeah, because I get b is, like I said, so, yeah.
Counselor：And b is good.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So. All right, so I want to take you back to the moment when you're looking at the first item. Let's go back to that for a second. Okay. So you're taking a quiz and you're having those thoughts surrounding that first item, which I'm not mistaken, the automatic thought. We talked about this, right? With the cognitive behavioral therapy. The automatic thought is that I'm not going to get this one right or something to that effect. What does that mean to you?
Client：It means once I don't get that right, I'm not going to get anything else right.
Counselor：All right. So what that thought means to you is that you're going to miss that item and then you're going to miss all the rest of the items. So you're going to fail the whole quiz.
Client：The whole thing, yeah.
Counselor：So looking at that, let's call that an intermediate belief, right. It's more of a rule or an expectation. Right. What does that mean to you?
Client：It just gets worse. If I fail the quiz, then I'm like, oh, my God, I'm gonna fail the final, I'm gonna fail the course and that's going to affect my GPA.
Counselor：So it just keeps stacking. So other beliefs. So you're going to fail the course and we're going to fail the final rather than you can fail the course. So if you failed the course, what would that mean to you then?
Client：I'm not going to graduate.
Counselor：You're not going to graduate. So we move from fail in the quiz if we just look at the meaning, right. To fail in the final, to fail in the course, and now to not graduating. So if you didn't graduate, what would that mean to you?
Client：I can't. I can't be a teacher. I can't do what I want to do.
Counselor：So your chosen vocation to be a teacher would be not possible.
Client：Right.
Counselor：Right. So we go a step further and say, what would it mean to you if you couldn't be a teacher?
Client：I don't know who I'd be at that point. That's what I always saw as my career. So I don't know what my future would look like at that point without that.
Counselor：So if you were to phrase it and kind of think back as we to the CBT techniques and I kind of conceptualization we've covered, if you're to phrase that as an I am statement, right. What would you. What would you be if you couldn't be a teacher? What would that make you?
Client：I am a person who didn't make it. I'm a person that failed.
Counselor：Like we said earlier, I'm a person that didn't make it. I'm a person who failed. So in a way you're saying I'm a failure, right? Is that close?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So remember we talked before about core beliefs and how these core beliefs drive these intermediate beliefs which combine with situations like, in your case, taking a quiz to form these automatic thoughts. So one of your core beliefs may be that you're a failure. You may believe that. Does that seem like something that you've said to yourself before or thought before.
Client：About it like that? Until we did the step up to it now. But I can relate to that because a lot of times I do feel like, oh, I'm not going to be able to do this because it's me. I won't be able to do it.
Counselor：Not because it's challenging or difficult, but something to do with you. So that's where kind of you're personalizing.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So you're saying to yourself at a variety of levels, I'm going to be unsuccessful, I'm going to fail. Does that make sense?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And you think that's what's happening?
Client：It must be because, like I said, I study, I get good grades. I've been tested years ago. I don't have ADHD. Anything intrinsic that would prohibit me.
Counselor：So you're able to focus and concentrate.
Client：Well, yes, I can do all of that, but when it comes to it, I'm like, I can't do it.
Counselor：So somewhere. Somewhere is this discord belief, and it's possible that it has something to do with you believing that you are a failure. Unsuccessful.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：How do you think your, say, friends or family would interpret that? Like, if. I'm not suggesting, telling them that, but if they were to somehow know that, that you believed you were a failure, how would they react?
Client：I don't think they would see the connection. I think they would be like, well, you do well in school. I don't understand.
Counselor：So they wouldn't believe that you're a failure?
Client：No.
Counselor：You may believe it.
Client：Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：And similarly, if you had a classmate that was in the same situation and, you know, struggled with these disturbing thoughts and feelings and behaviors during quizzes, how would you evaluate them?
Client：I guess I'd say the same thing that my family would say. Like, you're look at the evidence, you're not a failure.
Counselor：You'd say, look at the evidence and you'd evaluate that they weren't a failure.
Client：Right.
Counselor：But with yourself, you're being a little more harsh.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Which isn't uncommon. So there's a few levels in which I think we can go after this, what I'll call a problem. But really it's a series of thoughts and beliefs. Okay. The first is that the kind at the ground level, and that's when you are taking the quiz and you have that automatic thought that says, I'm going to miss this item.
Client：I'm not going to get it right.
Counselor：I'm not going to get it right. That's your thought. I'm not going to get it right. In these situations, I like to encourage clients to apply what's called an adaptive response or self talk. If you're in a quiz in a quiet classroom, it wouldn't literally be self talking.
Client：Right? Right.
Counselor：But it's a thought that you're consciously applying. So the other thought, that's automatic.
Client：Right.
Counselor：That just pops in your head. Right.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：This one would be one that you deliberately think and make myself. So what could you think to yourself that would be a counter to that automatic thought that you're having, that you're gonna get that item wrong?
Client：I guess that in my past quizzes, like, chances are I have a good chance of getting it right.
Counselor：Okay. So just looking at the probabilities based on your past performance, even though I'm thinking I'm going to get it wrong, chances are I'm going to get it right.
Client：Right. Somehow I still have a b. So.
Counselor：So you are getting most of them right.
Client：Right. So I have a good chance.
Counselor：So I like that adaptive response. Right. Do you think that makes sense for you? Yeah, I think you did well there. So the next time you're taking a quiz, I want you to apply that adaptive response. Now, this takes work, right. So this automatic thought is going to come upon you, and before you know it, you're gonna have that feeling. Right. The physical symptoms you discussed. The sweaty palms. Right. And the feeling of, I think you mentioned.
Client：Intense. Yeah.
Counselor：So don't let it discourage you. Those symptoms come on so quickly.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Right. There is an intervening thought, and you've identified it. So you will have an opportunity most likely to apply that automatic thought at some point. But the first few times, it might be a little rough.
Client：Yeah. Touch and go.
Counselor：I guess the nice thing about a quiz is, I mean, how many items are on these quizzes?
Client：Yeah. 1515.
Counselor：So you have a few different chances to apply that adapter. Right.
Client：Right. It's more than one.
Counselor：Yeah. So, you know, you would like to get on the first time where you have that mag thought, where you identify the automatic thought, but if you don't, it's not a big deal. So later on, maybe it takes item two or three, and then you might remember, hey, I have this.
Client：Yeah. Oh, wait. I'm supposed to be thinking this.
Counselor：Yeah. And my hope is that as you apply this adaptive response more and more, you can reduce the probability that that automatic thought is going to come in.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So that's one level that I want you to go after. It. Does that make sense?
Client：It does. I think I can do that.
Counselor：That's something you feel like you could.
Client：It is.
Counselor：You could do. At the other level. I guess you'd call this a deeper level, but it's all really, you know, in your brain. Right. It's just this core belief.
Client：Right.
Counselor：Okay. And why I use the word deeper is because we think of core beliefs as more stubborn. They don't change as easily as automatic thoughts might. I'd like you to. And this is really just more reflection. Reflect on the evidence or evaluate the evidence that supports and refutes this idea that you are unsuccessful, that you're a failure. I think cognitively, you kind of understand that you're not right, but in other sense, you feel like you are right. So, in a way, cognitively, you're.
Client：There's that discrepancy.
Counselor：Right. There's a little bit of both. You know, you can tell me that your family would say that's not the case, but you still.
Client：Right on paper, technically, I would. I'm not, but I still, I guess, feel that way.
Counselor：There's a part of you that still feels that way, part of you that still believes that cognitively, there's also a part of you that thinks through that and says that's not accurate. So I want you to weigh the validity of that core belief. And actually, I think with this, it's helpful to write down evidence that would support it, and that's certainly something to note. But also, and this is really more important, evidence that refutes it, evidence that runs counter.
Client：Right.
Counselor：But record both, and we'll meet next time, and we'll look at the evidence, and we'll evaluate it.
Client：Yeah, I can do that.
Counselor：So those two steps you feel like you're comfortable with, and they make sense to you?
Client：Yeah, they do. I do. I definitely think I can do those.
Counselor：When's the next time you'll be taking a quiz?
Client：I think next week.
Counselor：Next week. Okay. You have these quizzes often?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So we'll set up a session for next week. Let's try to get to where it's after your next quiz. So we'll have that to talk about, because I think that's the next area to make. It sounds like the next area would be good to try to make progress. Yeah, I mean, seems like that's what you want to work on.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So we'll go from there. So I'll set you up with an appointment for just after that quiz. Try the adaptive response and try evaluating evidence with the core belief. That sounds good.
Client：I can do that.
Counselor：All right, I will set the appointment up, and I appreciate you coming in and working through this.
Client：Yeah. Thank you so much.