Counselor：Hey, Carly. How are you doing today?
Client：I'm good. How are you?
Counselor：I'm doing well, thanks for asking. What's been going on this last week?
Client：I've just been feeling kind of in a rut. I mean, I've been looking for a job and haven't really gotten anywhere. And then I had a drink the other night, and I just felt like me not having a job and me going out and having that drink, it wasn't deserved. And I just felt like such a loser because that was the time that I should have been at work if I had a job, and instead I was at the bar drinking. So I had one drink, and then it led to another. Cause then I just felt worse and I figured I had one, so.
Counselor：All right, so how much did you drink in total?
Client：I think I lost track after four or five.
Counselor：How long had it been since you had a drink before that?
Client：I did really well. It was, I think, like three weeks.
Counselor：Three weeks?
Client：Three weeks or so.
Counselor：Oh, so you did really well and then you had one drink and that just made you feel like you weren't successful?
Client：I felt like a loser.
Counselor：Felt like a loser. And you feel that kind of led to drinking some more? So you had a rough time with things?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Yeah. How about now?
Client：I mean, now I just kind of. I don't know, I'm afraid to go back. Like, I'm afraid to go out with, like, some friends. They invite me out to dinner, but I know there's alcohol and.
Counselor：Is that where you were when you had that first drink? Was that with friends?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：All right, so there's a few things going on. We've talked in the past, right, about separating the behavior from the person. Right. So behavior is what we do, not who we are. You remember those discussions? And correct me if I'm wrong, but it sounds like I'm going to use some different words than you used. But it sounds like when you had that first drink, you're kind of ashamed that you had a drink and you had it during the time when you would have been working.
Client：Yeah, that's pretty accurate.
Counselor：That's pretty accurate. So, taking yourself back to that moment, right. We had that first. That first drink, like, you finished that first drink. What was your thought at that moment?
Client：Just, like, shameful. Like, I did really, really well, and then here I was, and I had just finished a drink, and I knew I wanted another one.
Counselor：Okay, so shameful is kind of like the feeling, but the thought is I did really, really well. Right. So that's what you're thinking was, I did really, really well. And what was that the end of the thought? Or was that. Was there more before you had that next drink?
Client：I guess just I was doing well, and then I had a drink, and I just felt like an awful person. So figured what was the. The hurt and having more.
Counselor：So the sequence would have been you had the drink, you felt shameful. At the same time, you're thinking that you were doing really well, and then just really, as you said before, you just felt like a loser. And then you decided, might as well just have the second drink. So another thought might be that, like, I might as well, just might as well just have a second drink.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Yeah. So you can see how there's some thoughts and some feelings at work. Right. As you finished that first drink, was it fairly quick? Were those thoughts and feelings fairly occur fairly quickly after the drink?
Client：Yeah, I would say as I was finishing and then finished.
Counselor：Right away, you regretted it. And in that regret, as you thought about it, thought, might as well just continue drinking now because you kind of blew it.
Client：Yeah, I already messed up. I might as well keep going.
Counselor：Okay. And that's a common cycle to fall into. And you had three weeks where you hadn't had a drink prior to that. So let's look at this. Let's try to separate the behavior from the self a little bit. If you had a friend who was in the same predicament, who had a history of using alcohol and then had three weeks without any alcohol use, and then their behavior was to have a drink, what would you think of them?
Client：I would think that they had a rough day or something must have happened where? I mean, it's just one drink.
Counselor：Okay. They had a rough day. One drink. And what would you think of their behavior? How would you categorize that behavior?
Client：I guess just they made a mistake.
Counselor：So not ideal, depending on their point of view. Maybe a little irresponsible.
Client：Yeah, I think irresponsible would be irresponsible.
Counselor：But you wouldn't necessarily characterize them as a bad person. No, but their behavior was a bit irresponsible, you know, in terms of, like, the recovery plan, which would be to not drink. But when you apply that same examination to your own situation, how do you characterize yourself after you had that first drink?
Client：It was my mistake. It was in it. It makes me a worse person for doing it.
Counselor：So you see how you're being a little. Well, it'd be quite a bit rougher on yourself. Like, your evaluation of yourself is. Is fairly harsh. You mentioned loser earlier and ashamed. Whereas you wouldn't necessarily evaluate someone else that way. How would you evaluate your behavior? How would you judge your behavior of taking that first drink?
Client：Shameful. I mean, irresponsible, bad overall.
Counselor：So bad, irresponsible, shameful. Is there a way to separate that behavior in terms of your thinking, in terms of the way you evaluate it from yourself? Like, are you into behavior together, enmeshed, or can you be separated?
Client：Um, I think we could be separated, but it. It feels like we're, like I am.
Counselor：That behavior in that moment, it's very congruent for you.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：Right. The shame matches the behavior. The behavior matches shame like it's there one at that moment. But really, logically, rationally, you're you. Right? Your identity and values and your behavior is something you do, but in the moment, it's hard for you to see that. Looking back on it now, are you able to see the distinction between what people do and what they are?
Client：Yeah. I mean, just because you have one drink doesn't make you a horrible person, I don't think. Right.
Counselor：No, certainly not. No. And you were clean for three weeks, and you had one drink. So really, your behavior was a slip, right? It was. And irresponsible in relationship to your goals, I suppose, but still a slip. And you could have stopped, but that shame got ahold of you, right? That thought, well, now I've done it.
Client：I blew it.
Counselor：Yeah. So with that mentality, you kind of set yourself up for drinking more. So I think this is important because we've seen this cycle, like, where you have weeks of sobriety, and then you'll drink a bit and then have weeks of sobriety. And I'm wondering if part of the difficulty you're facing is you're not coping with the slips as just slips.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：You're allowing them to be gateways into a lot more drinking than a slip. Does that make sense?
Client：That sounds pretty accurate.
Counselor：And you see how the shameful feelings kind of just interfere with the behavior that you really. That's really consistent with your goals, which would be to not continue drinking. Another piece of this, too, is the associating with friends who drink. You're putting yourself in a treacherous situation. And again, that's a behavior, right? That doesn't make you one way or the other. It's a behavior. How would you judge that behavior, going out with friends?
Client：I don't know. I mean, difficult, because I like being around those people, but I guess it would be. It's risky.
Counselor：Risky? Okay. It's a risky behavior. And what does it make you? Who are you? Because you do that behavior. Like, how do you feel about yourself when you take that risky behavior?
Client：Guilty.
Counselor：Okay. So you have guilt when you go out with your friends, and then you have shame if you drink. And both, in this case, both emotions that kind of point you in the direction of more drinking. So part of this behavioral strategy here is to avoid those circumstances. Like, to recognize that's a risky behavior, which you have. And the other part would be to deal more effectively if you do slip.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Right. Does that separation of what we do and who we are make sense to you rationally? Kind of feels a little unnatural, though.
Client：Yeah. Yeah.
Counselor：So maybe as you're confronting similar situations in the course of the next week, you could be aware of behaviors that might put you at risk and try to try to separate your identity from that behavior. So just judge the behavior and don't pass any judgment on yourself. Does that make sense?
Client：Kind of, yeah.
Counselor：It might help you to, since it's a little tough to. Because right now the feeling and the judgment are intertwined. Right. It might help to write it down when these things happen and kind of write down, like, one row for this is how I judge this behavior that I'm thinking about doing, and this is how I judge myself. So if you see a lot of self judgment, that might be a clue that you're falling into that cycle a little bit where you're making decisions based on that emotion instead of a rational judgment of the behavior.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Would that help a little bit?
Client：Yeah, I think that would probably be beneficial.
Counselor：Right. So that will be our plan going forward until next week is note, document your judgment about your behavior and any judgment you may have about yourself. And there's some insight that can be gained there. You kind of distinguish the two and make a note of those and try to use that evidence before making a decision that might put you in a risky spot.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Sound like a plan?
Client：Yeah, I think I can try that.
Counselor：Okay, good. I'll see you next week, and we'll see how you did with those goals.
Client：Okay, bye.