Counselor：Alex, we're going to continue today with the trauma memory task like last time. So this is, of course, you talking about your memory of the attack from beginning to end in as much detail as you can. Just to remind you, we've said that we are doing this to help put this memory sort of back into the past, I guess, where it belongs. We hope that by doing this, it's going to help lessen those nightmares and flashbacks and other upsetting memories of the attack that are bothering you quite a bit at the moment. So how do you feel about that? About going through the memory again together today?
Client：Can't say I'm excited about it, but I'll give it another shot.
Counselor：Yeah. Look, I think we do know that this is difficult right now. But what I also expect is that it's going to get easier and easier for you to talk about this memory the more often you do. And I'll be right here with you to support you with that. So, same as last time, I'm going to ask you to talk about the memory as if it were happening now. So in the present tense. And I'm going to ask you to start at the bit where you are waiting for the tramdhead and end it at the part where your mum is there or your mum arrives. And I'll be checking in with you about where you are on the thermometer again. So before you begin, where are you in terms of your distress on that zero to ten thermometer?
Client：I'm about a five.
Counselor：About a five?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay, well, let's go through that memory again, starting whenever you're ready.
Client：So I'm sitting playing with my phone at the tram stop. I see them out of the corner of my eye. Two guys wearing jeans, hoodies and sneakers. I don't think much of it. Then they come up behind me, grab my arms and put them behind my back. My phone smashes to the ground. I can feel my heart pounding. I'm thinking, oh, God, what are they gonna do to me?
Counselor：Okay, you're doing well. Where are you on that thermometer?
Client：About a seven.
Counselor：Okay, stick with it.
Client：Then. I feel something cold metal on my neck. I realize it's a knife. I think, oh, shit. Then one of them whispers into my ear, give us your watch or I'll stab you. I can smell booze on his breath.
Counselor：You're doing well. Where are you now?
Client：Eight.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：I'm too paralyzed to speak. I just try and nod. They let go of my arms, but the knife is still there. One of them takes the watch off my arm. Then they start going through my pockets. I guess they're looking for cards or money. He finally puts the knife away. Then they pull me onto my feet and one of them knees me so hard in the stomach that I fall back down. Then they start kicking me in the stomach and just run off.
Counselor：Ok, you're doing well. Where are you on that thermometer now?
Client：About a seven.
Counselor：Keep going if you can.
Client：I'm lying on the ground in pretty bad shape. I can't breathe properly. I'm thinking, I don't have my phone. How is anyone gonna find me? Are they gonna come back for me?
Counselor：Okay, doing well. Where are you on that thermometer?
Client：I'm about an eight.
Counselor：Okay, keep going.
Client：I feel like I'm there forever, but finally I hear a guy calling out. He's asking him if I'm okay. I couldn't get any words out, so I just make a weird sound. He comes over. He's an older guy, about 50. He says everything's gonna be okay. And I'm so relieved I start crying.
Counselor：Where are you on that scale now?
Client：About six?
Counselor：Yeah, yeah, keep going.
Client：I don't remember telling him my mum's number, but I must have. Cause the next thing I know, she's there next to me. She looks like she's been crying. She holds me in her arms and says, I'm safe now.
Counselor：Okay, and where are you on the thermometer now?
Client：Back down to a five.
Counselor：Back down to a five. Okay. Great job. Alex, how was that for you today?
Client：It was hard, but easier than last time. Some bits were easier.
Counselor：Yeah, yeah, I noticed that too. It was still hard. And we'd expect that you're still getting used to talking about this memory that you've been trying to push out of your mind for a very long time. So I would expect that it would still be hard right now. But I noticed too, that there were parts where you seem to be a little bit lower on that thermometer than last time. And you came down to a five at the end. And I also noticed today that you seem to tap into a little bit more detail about some of the things that were happening than last time we went through the memory. So that's going to be really helpful for us as we continue to process this memory as well. So great job.
Client：Thanks.
Counselor：We're going to go through the memory again probably another couple of times in this session, but let's just take a moment to sit quietly and you can let me know when you're ready to start again.