Counselor：Hi, Carly. How you doing today?
Client：I'm good. How about you?
Counselor：I'm doing well, thanks for asking. How did you do this week?
Client：Better. Well, last time we talked about that postpone gratification. Yeah, that, and I think you wanted ten minutes for me to put it off.
Counselor：Ten minutes, yeah.
Client：So I did better. I think I ended up only doing, like, a joint a half instead of two. I was able to put it off for, I think, the ten minutes a couple times. And then I. There was, I think, one or two days where I went out for a walk because I was tired of staring at the clock, waiting for the ten minutes to pass. So I got up, went for a walk, and then I passed one of my friends, so I ended up walking with her. And I actually didn't get back to my house for, like, an hour, so I kind of put it off for, like, an hour because then I came home and took a couple hits.
Counselor：All right, so it sounds like. It sounds like you were able to maintain waiting ten minutes to smoke marijuana, at least in most cases. It was rough.
Client：It was rough, yeah.
Counselor：So it was difficult for you, but in most cases, you're able to hold off the ten minutes, and it sounds like there was a few instances where you're able to hold it off longer because something else kind of.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Came up.
Client：Yeah, I found I actually, like, talked to a couple people on the phone. Before I knew it, like, a half hour had gone by.
Counselor：So another activity presented itself. And you forgot about the marijuana?
Client：Kind of, yeah. Yeah, I guess I just wasn't thinking about it.
Counselor：So has your. Have your feelings about marijuana changed since we last talked?
Client：No, not really.
Counselor：Tell me about that.
Client：I mean, it's. I don't see it as a problem. It's legal in a lot of states now, and, I mean, it's not that bad for you. It doesn't really endanger me much.
Counselor：So you still. You still believe you should have the right to smoke marijuana?
Client：Yeah, I mean, I'm not hurting anybody.
Counselor：Else, but at the same time, you want to go back to work, and if I remember right, you're the person that you could go work for. I guess you know them, right?
Client：Yeah, it's my uncle.
Counselor：Your uncle. And you need to be clean for, what was it, about two months?
Client：Yeah, I think two to three months.
Counselor：So you have kind of opposing forces here, right? You have your enjoyment of marijuana, and then you. That's something you, like. You don't want to give up, and you believe you should have a right to do that, but then there's that job.
Client：Yeah. I mean, my parents are pretty cool with it. Like, they know, but, I mean, I'm at the point now where they kind of want me to move on and move out. But I don't know. I mean, I just. It'd be nice to have that job. Like, it's a really good job, but at the same time, like, I don't see why I have to sacrifice something that I like.
Counselor：So it doesn't seem fair to you, but she recognizes the reality of your situation. Yeah, it really does come down, in your instance, to marijuana use or employment.
Client：Yeah, it's pretty accurate.
Counselor：Okay, so you're not happy about that choice?
Client：Not at all.
Counselor：Yeah. And kind of what we did with the postponed gratification was just. I mean, I really just ask you to wait ten minutes, and you were able to do that and more. Although it was difficult.
Client：It was difficult.
Counselor：It was difficult for you. So I asked you to track the number of times you smoked marijuana. Did you. Were you able to track that over the last week?
Client：Yeah, for the most part.
Counselor：Do you remember how many times that was?
Client：I think. I think I did, like, 15.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：Between 15 and 20.
Counselor：Between 15 and 20. And how many times did something kind of get in the way? Did something else come up in that ten minute span that distracted you or that you enjoyed?
Client：Like, almost closer to 20 times, I guess. Otherwise I probably would have kept going, smoked more. I mean, there were a couple times where, like, somebody would call me or somebody would text me, and that kind of distracted me, so I was able to put it off for a little bit.
Counselor：So you can see in that ten minutes, things can happen. Things can happen that can help you to avoid the marijuana. Sometimes nothing does, and after the ten minutes you use it, and sometimes something does kind of get in the way with the marijuana, like, distract you or you have another activity that you enjoy and then you didn't use. So with that in mind, you found the experience rough. But was it tolerable?
Client：Yeah, it wasn't bad.
Counselor：Was it bad? Do you think for this next week we could try postponing that gratification from ten minutes to 20 minutes?
Client：I don't know. That seems kinda. Yeah, that seems like a longer time.
Counselor：That is definitely. That is a longer time.
Client：I don't know about that.
Counselor：Yeah.
Client：Maybe like 15 minutes.
Counselor：No, a compromise. Is 15 okay. Yeah. Do you think you could maintain 15 minutes weighing 15?
Client：I think I could try a little bit more than 20.
Counselor：Be a loser than 20. All right, so let's go with 15. Minutes. So 15 minutes is compared to ten. That will give you five extra minutes that something could happen that could distract you and you wouldn't use in that instance. Right. There's also to constructively use that time. You could consider alternatives. Like you mentioned walking. You could use that time and start walking.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Anything else that you like? Maybe in the past, on occasion when you wanted to use marijuana, but you didn't have anything available, what would you.
Client：Do instead, if anything, binge watch tv.
Counselor：Watch tv. Okay, well, so perhaps in that 15 minutes time period that that time you're delaying using marijuana, you could start watching a show that you like.
Client：Yeah, I can do that.
Counselor：At the end of 15 minutes, you might end up using marijuana, or you might want to continue watching the show. So do you see kind of how it works? Is it making sense to you, the postponing?
Client：Yeah, it doesn't make it any easier.
Counselor：But it's tough for you.
Client：Yeah, no, I definitely see how it helps.
Counselor：And maybe if we're successful with the 15, who knows? We can move it up from there.
Client：Maybe. We'll see how the 15 goes.
Counselor：We'll see how it goes with the 15. We'll see how that goes. I'm hoping, and I hope this kind of makes sense, that there'll be a point where you'll be really interfering with the vast majority of the times that you use marijuana because you're giving yourself that many more opportunities. The longer you wait. Right. The more minutes you wait, the more opportunities for something else to get in the way, so to speak. And probably what you'll see, just like you saw this last week, is you used marijuana less frequently just by waiting the ten minutes, even though you described as difficult, and I'm sure it was, but there were a few times where it kind of worked out.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So I think that planning something for that time would be helpful. Try to plan something 15 minutes. Even if you fully intend at the end of the 15 to go write and use, I think it's still useful to plan something in there. And you never know where that might take you. You might end up walking or watching tv or doing something else that would distract you or pull you away from the marijuana use.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Does that sound like a plan?
Client：Yeah, I think I can give that a try.
Counselor：Good. And if you do the same thing, if you could kind of write down the number of times that you used, like mark each time you used and kind of what happened in terms of the 15 minutes wait.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Right. Actually, I guess more accurately, every time that you initiate a 15 minutes wait period would be a good time to note it, because the idea is that something's going to come up and that you're going to have an opportunity to distance yourself from the use, and you won't use as much. So I want to kind of get an idea of the thought process that's occurring as you start that 15 minutes. And if you end up using what happened then if you end up not using, kind of like the outcome for each possible scenario, and then we can kind of analyze that and we can see if moving the minutes up would be something we could do.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Does that sound like a plan?
Client：Yeah, I think I can manage that.
Counselor：All right. We'll go with that. And I'll see you in a week.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Thank you.