Counselor：Hello, Marcy, how you doing?
Client：I've been better.
Counselor：Been better. Yeah, I saw that you called a few times between the last session and today. You left a few messages.
Client：Yeah, I was trying to get holding you. I had something I really needed to discuss with you, but nobody called me back. I emailed you a couple times, I never got a reply, so I was just wondering what's going on with that?
Counselor：We can talk about that. I want to talk about that after getting those messages. Remember we discussed the process for when your mood deteriorates and you had a few other resources you wanted to connect with before calling me.
Client：Yeah, I kind of remember it.
Counselor：Your brother was one of those resources.
Client：Oh, yeah, that's useless anyway. Go on.
Counselor：Did you attempt to.
Client：No, he's so busy with it, like he could never help me. I don't think he even cares what I'm going through. He's got his own stuff to deal with, he's got his own family and all this stuff and. Yeah, he doesn't care.
Counselor：So you didn't contact him first because he thought he doesn't care? Yeah, and we'd also talked about a few different friends that you had that you'd reached out to, you didn't contact them or did.
Client：Well, I did call my one friend, Beth, but I. She was like, oh, can I call you back? And of course she didn't because nobody ever calls me back. You know, I'm like, they all have their own lives. No one really cares what I'm doing. You know, it's always like that. So that's why I thought I could reach out to you since you're supposed to be helping me, but apparently you never call me back or answer any of my emails, so.
Counselor：Right. We talked about how there's limitations on time and how it would be better if we could keep the therapy in here in person. Right. And not get really too excessive with the telephone calls. I realize that when you're in distress, there's that kind of feeling that it would be a good idea to call. But remember, we discussed different levels of distress. And if it's something common that you've been through before and you kind of know the outcome, connecting with one of those resources might be more helpful.
Client：Yeah, I just feel like you're the only one that can help me, you know, I mean, my boyfriend, like, things aren't going well with him. I thought he could help me, but I guess he can't. And I think he's running around on me and all that. So I was just like, well, let me reach out to doctor Grande and see if it can help me, because it seems like my last resort.
Counselor：I remember you discussing, a few weeks ago, your boyfriend, and you had a fairly high opinion of him. Like, it was. It seemed like a positive.
Client：Yeah, he was great. He was great. And then, you know, he was in the other room and he got a text message, and I was like, let me just look at that. Because I was just curious to see what's going on with him because he never talks to me about anything. And so I looked at it, and it was a girl's name and number that I don't know. And so he came back in. You know, they put it away quickly, and I didn't say anything, like, what's wrong with you? Because I was acting weird and I was like, nothing. So then he went out, so I followed him. And then he went to, like, some friend's house. And I don't know if there's girls there or not, but. So I kind of think he's running around, maybe. I don't know. And I can't trust him. I can't trust anybody, you know? So I don't know. I mean, he was so awesome before, but now I just don't know. But he was everything I ever wanted.
Counselor：Yeah, I remember. You seem very excited about where that relationship could go.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And you seem like you're much more negative about.
Client：Yeah. I mean, if he's not going to be faithful to me, what am I supposed to do? Yeah, I mean, it's just like every other guy that I've ever dated, like, either leave me or cheat on me or lie to me. So, I mean, I don't know why I thought this one was going to be different. Seriously, why would this one be different?
Counselor：So you have. You had this experience with the text message and you don't know? You don't know any more than that? But it sounds like you kind of jumped to, he's cheating. So, you know, he went to a text message and went to someone's house.
Client：Yeah. I don't know if they were related. The text message and him leaving, I mean, but I just assumed. So I'm just gonna assume because it seems to be a pattern in my life. You know, everybody lets me down.
Counselor：Could it be that you're jumping to that conclusion prematurely?
Client：Probably, but I guess it's all I know that's all. I've always been treated, so I kind of feel like, why would this be different? Even though I thought it was in the beginning, but I don't know.
Counselor：So you feel like you've seen this all before, this pattern?
Client：Yeah, I guess I just always pick the wrong people or it's probably just me. I think I'm the one that's just unlovable. I've been told that growing up a lot. So I think it's me because he's great. I mean, he's great and he's good looking, he has a good job. And I always thought I'm like, why is he with me? And then now I see, like, he doesn't really want to be with me. Whoever he was texting, that's probably the person wants to be with him. She's probably, like, pretty and has, she probably has a good job and she's got everything going for her and so.
Counselor：So you really, this week at least, you don't seem to think a lot of yourself.
Client：No. I mean, when things are going bad in my relationships, they really seem to get to me, you know?
Counselor：So in a way, you feel like your mood is subject to how your current romantic relationship is going?
Client：Yeah, I guess that's pretty right on. Yeah, I would say that.
Counselor：Is there anything that you can do from your side to improve what's going on?
Client：No, I don't think so. I think it's everybody else that is treating me wrong, you know? So unless I find the right person who's going to treat me right, then I don't know what I'm going to do. So.
Counselor：So the. So the key to feeling better is finding the right person.
Client：Yeah, I think so. And like I said, I thought he was the right one in the beginning, and now I don't know anymore. But, you know, I really don't want him to leave me because, like, then when I gotta do him, now I'm gonna be alone. I want to be alone because I love him, but, you know, so I think I probably will forgive him and just stay with them because I don't want to be alone. I'm too scared to do that. I mean, I don't want to be alone without somebody. You know, I really need somebody. Yes.
Counselor：So does some of this seem like what you're describing with your mood, does some of this seem like you're out of control?
Client：Yeah, because I feel like I can't control other people's actions, and that really makes me mad. That makes me really angry, you know? That what am I supposed to do? And so I think acting out and following them and checking their text messages, and it's the only thing that makes me feel in control, I guess. I don't know.
Counselor：I know in the past, when we've talked about this, you've mentioned that you thought that that behavior could be driving them away, too.
Client：Yeah, I mean, I can see that. I mean, people want, you know, some that they can trust, too. And I'm not sure I've always been honest with them, but I'm always looking for things that they're gonna do to manipulate me or try to, like, you know, screw me over or whatever. So here's my guard down. Yeah, I'm suspicious.
Counselor：I wonder if sometimes you acting on those suspicions, that's not making things a little worse in those relationships.
Client：Yeah, probably. But, I mean, like I said before, I don't want to be alone. I don't want to move out somebody. I need somebody. I need somebody. I need somebody to be with, you know, I need someone to help me with things. I don't want to be alone. You know, that's, you know, and he has said things to me like, you can't call me all the time at work because I'm at work, and you leave me, like, 40 voice messages because I just want to know if he's actually at work. You know? He's like, you can't do those things because I'm gonna get fired, and then where are we gonna be? He's like, you know, and you can't, like, call the numbers in my phone and find out who they are and, like, hang up because my friends know it's you, and you can't, you know, have your friends come to the bar and see who I'm with and, like, report back to you. Like, that's. He's like, I don't want to be in relationship with someone that doesn't trust me like that. So now, you know, I'm really scared of losing them. Yeah.
Counselor：So you have called other boyfriends and this boyfriend many times?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：On the phone?
Client：Yeah. I just want to check up and see what they're doing. If they said they're at the place that they said they were going, you know, I just want to know that I'm not being lied to because I've always been lied to. All my life, I've been lied to.
Counselor：So is all that calling something you do to relieve anxiety?
Client：Well, when I find out they're at the place that they said they were, that I feel better for at least, you know, for a few minutes till the next time. Like, wait, maybe they left. Let me see where they are now, you know, and then it kind of builds upon itself till they just get so frustrated. And then usually it ends with, like, a screaming match when I do see them.
Counselor：Mm hmm. You know, there's a lot of screaming and yelling.
Client：A lot of screaming and yelling and accusations and finger pointing and just. Yeah, it's not good. It's not a good scene when those kinds of things go down. But like I said, I really love him. I don't want to be without him. I don't know how I live without him.
Counselor：All right, so there's the. There's screaming and there's yelling and some discontentment, but there's also this love you have for him and this fear that you'll be alone. So there's a lot of emotion here driving different behaviors.
Client：I said I would do whatever it took for him to stay with me. You know, he doesn't really talk about it. I think he gets really mad at me for being so needy. He's like, you're needy. Why don't you do your own stuff and leave me alone? And, you know, you need to have your own life. And, you know, I don't like to be ignored. You know, I was ignored all growing up, made a big family. I just got lost in the shuffle, and now here I am.
Counselor：So with all these things going on, all these kind of negative feelings, negative self image and trouble with the boyfriend, like this week, today, what's your goal? What do you want to change?
Client：Well, I guess I would like to be able to trust people more and not feel so desperate. I mean, and I don't know what to do. I don't know how to do that.
Counselor：To be able to trust people more. So maybe one place we could start is to ensure that you're accurately assessing what, for example, your boyfriend's doing. So in the past, when we've talked, you've been suspicious about different behaviors. And it turns out in many of those cases, nothing was happening. And the kind of chasing them around and making observations, that's what caused some of the problem. Does that make sense?
Client：Yeah. I mean, that's what they say the problem is. But I don't know. It could be something else. I mean, it could be somebody else. They could have been met somebody better. I don't know. That's what they tell me. Maybe they're trying to be nice, try to get out of the relationship. There's no way to know, that seems.
Counselor：To be where your mind goes first. It's kind of the worst case or one of the worst case scenarios. So sometimes with managing mood, one of the keys to success is encouraging, accurate thinking, logical thinking. Right. So there's a lot of emotion involved when you're following them around and when you're checking the cell phone, like, are you, you feeling.
Client：Yeah, I don't. I don't feel good. I mean, I feel completely anxious when I'm doing for a. I might get caught. You know, that's always a thing in my mind. And like, be like, why am I doing this? But beyond my control. Sometimes I just need to know.
Counselor：It would be possible to. When you have these thoughts like that, say, let's work on this idea that you're worried about him cheating. So you have this thought that something like, he's going to leave me. He doesn't really love me. He's cheating. Is that close to what you're thinking?
Client：Yeah, that's pretty close.
Counselor：And after you have a thought like that, are you. Is that when you're, like, checking up on him and checking on his phone and confirming?
Client：Yeah, it compounds itself, definitely.
Counselor：So something happens that leads to that thought. And I think that would be an area where maybe we could try to focus some energy. So maybe for this week. I know things are still tumultuous between you and your boyfriend. Maybe this week, before you follow him around, check his cell phone, confront him, anything like that. Instead of doing that, before you have that feeling or as you have that feeling that you want to do that, maybe document what is going through your mind at that moment, like what you're thinking. Ok, and I'll try that. It seems likely, based on our experience together, that this is something that will happen a few times between now and next week, there'll be a few times when you want to confront him or follow him around. You could write down what you're thinking at each point and not confront him or follow him around. So hold off on the behavior. Focus your energy on writing down those thoughts.
Client：That's gonna be hard.
Counselor：It's difficult.
Client：Yeah, I try.
Counselor：I know. Sometimes it feels like the emotion kind of takes charge.
Client：Yeah. Sometimes I don't even know what I'm doing. I just find myself in the car. I'm like, where am I going? I'm like, what am I doing?
Counselor：Yeah, the emotions are powerful. However, I'd like to be able to get these thoughts. I think that there might be a way to improve your mood if we can find out how these thoughts are working and maybe try to make some adjustments there. I know it's difficult, and I know the emotions are hard to control for you. Do you think it's a. A step you could try this week, though? And so whenever you find yourself about to do something that's maybe going to antagonize the situation, write down at that point what you're thinking. Maybe that way you can kind of channel some energy there and not act out on that. And it's also something we can take a look at in session next time and review those thoughts, see what we find, see if we find any patterns. Does that make sense? I know this is a struggle for you, and I realize that writing all these thoughts down and following this process is new and different. I want you to try to stick with it if you can. I think that you. You could be able to benefit from this if you could stick with it.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：All right. Okay. Give it a try. All right, Marcy, let's go with that plan and write down those thoughts. We'll go over the next week and between now and next week, the same thing, like, in terms of when you want to reach out to me, take a look at those guidelines we worked out with that process, and work through the process and see if you're actually supposed to contact me, if it's really something that requires that attention or if some of your supports can take care of that. I know it's tough when you call me and I can't get back to you.
Client：Yeah. I really feel rejected in my bathrooms.
Counselor：Yeah, I'm not rejecting. I know it feels that way. I'm trying to set a boundary that will help you and trying to focus our time in here instead of on the phone. All right. So if you could apply that same logic to when you want to call me, work through the process and write down the thought. Okay. We'll go from there, and I will see you next week.
Client：Okay. Thank you.
Counselor：Thanks, Marcy.