Counselor：Hello, mister Urban. It's nice to see you again. From our previous session, I know you spoke about the relationship you and your wife were going through. In the bad terms, she got left off. So I want to ask you, what would make you cheat on your wife?
Client：You know, I've been asked that question every day for the past two, three weeks. And the only thing I can respond with is what would make a wife cheat on her husband? I mean, it's petty. I know it's petty. But I loved her. And finding out that more than once she was with somebody else, that took something from me that I couldn't get back. And for months I was dealing with. What could I have done? What was it? What did I do? Because it has to have been me. She's too nice a person for that, right? She's too smart a person for that, right? And then weeks of me finally understanding that it wasn't me. A decision that you make is a decision that you make. So when Susie, my administrative assistant, came into the picture, I had a decision that I had to make. I have to take it off and spend time with Susie. Or keep it on and spend many a night alone. So why? You figure it out.
Counselor：So do you think that you did it for revenge? Were you trying to get back at your wife?
Client：I guess. I mean, what else could it be? Yeah, maybe I am that petty. But it's just. It's not love anymore.
Counselor：So why are you still in a marriage, mister Urban? If it's not love, if it's not for love, why do you feel that you must stay in America?
Client：Because that's the type of household I was brought up in.
Counselor：Explain that to me.
Client：My dad always told me that you take care of your business and your girl is your business. You never leave her. You take care of her no matter what. That's what you do. So when I got older, I asked him, what do you mean you never leave her? He said, divorce is not an option. That's pretty much how it is in my household.
Counselor：So are you saying because of how you were raised up is why you're still in the marriage?
Client：It's the only thing that makes sense.
Counselor：Are you happy?
Client：Do I seem happy?
Counselor：Have you spoken to your wife about this?
Client：No. So everything that I feel, everything that I am is stuck on the inside. This is actually the first time I've actually talked about any of her.
Counselor：Okay, mister Ermen, so let's try this exercise. I'm gonna pull out chairs, so pretend that that this is your wife here. Why are we here and express your feelings.
Client：Why do I have to do this?
Counselor：Because you never spoke about it. Right? So express your feelings. Let it out, and see how you would tell her what you're feeling inside. Do you feel uncomfortable?
Client：I felt uncomfortable since the moment I found out that you just didn't love me anymore. I felt uncomfortable every single night I've been in the guest room because I just couldn't take being with you. I felt uncomfortable since the very moment I felt like it was okay because of what you did to me. To take off my wedding band, to forget my vows, to forget you, to try and be something that I'm not. Every night that I was with Susie, I imagined that I was with you, but not who you are now. I imagine that I was with the woman that I first met, woman that I first loved. But you're not the same person anymore. I haven't been the same person over a year. Every day that I wake up and I see your face, I have to imagine that you are that same person because that's the. The only thing that keeps me around. That and the fact that I just don't think I can make. And it's not because I love you so much anymore, because it's not you that I love. It's not because of anything religious. It's because I don't want to deal with my family.
Counselor：I know that was hard to do. Mister Urban, are you doing all right? Are you feeling okay?
Client：I'm fine.
Counselor：Okay. So I want you to realize, like, can you not see that your belief is causing this pain inside your depression and your unhappiness?
Client：It makes sense, if that's what you're saying. The question is, how am I supposed to deal with, like, right now? I know I've got the option of staying with her and dealing with this every day for as long as I stay with her and deal with this or just leaving, and then I have to deal with everything else around me. How am I supposed to get past that? That's my question. And I don't know. I don't even know if that's really the right way to go.
Counselor：What is everything else?
Client：My family, the judgments. What? I'm gonna have to deal with my brother, who, by the way, is married, and he's not dealing with infidelity, but he's dealing with the same depression I am. The love isn't there anymore. We don't get divorced. Not in my household.
Counselor：So would you rather satisfy what, your family standard? Rather to be happy? Is that what you're saying?
Client：Sounds like it.
Counselor：Have you spoken to your family about this?
Client：No.
Counselor：And what do you think they would say if they were to find out.
Client：That I was thinking this way? My dad would probably disown you.
Counselor：To go that far and disown you.
Client：Especially when I seen that he dealt with the same thing. My family doesn't do well with marriages because I haven't met a single person in my lineage that has a happy marriage.
Counselor：Do you see your family often, Mister Urban?
Client：Not really.
Counselor：Do you want to be happy, mister Urban?
Client：Who doesn't?
Counselor：So do you feel like if you left your wife and were to move to a different place, would you be happy?
Client：I think you're asking me to do something that I don't know I'm prepared to do. I don't know if I can do that.
Counselor：Okay, so I'm gonna give you a homework assignment. I'm gonna have you go home tonight, speak to your wife and see how she feels. Express your feelings just like you did with the exercise earlier. Talk to her and make a decision together. Whether if you guys would prefer to separate, give each other time to figure out what is best for you or go for a divorce. Does that sound okay? Like to go home and talk to your wife? Is he her point?
Client：Look, I've tried everything else already, so I don't think I really have an option here.
Counselor：Okay, mister Urban. In our next session, I would like you to tell me how that went about.