Counselor：Hi, Michelle. How you doing today?
Client：Um, I'm kind of doing. I'm feeling a little bit stressed out.
Counselor：Stressed?
Client：Yeah. I feel like I have a lot on my plate. I have this test that I have to take for work.
Counselor：What kind of test?
Client：It's like an aptitude test. It has, like, math problems on it and, like, scenarios in order for me to move up to the assistant manager. Precision.
Counselor：That's a job that you've been interested in for a while?
Client：Yes, it is. Yes. So I've been just feeling a lot of anxiety about taking the test, and then they actually scheduled for me to take the test, and I went and I just got really overwhelmed, and I started, like, I felt my heart was racing. I felt like I wish my hands were shaking. And I just really couldn't concentrate on the test, even though the night before, me and my friend did practice problems and I knew all the answers with no problem, like, I didn't miss any of the questions.
Counselor：So you know the material on this test pretty well.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：But the feelings and that physiological response to heart rate and sweating, that the feelings of anxiety plus those physiological responses, they got in the way of you completing it. Like, you weren't able to complete it?
Client：No, I wasn't able to complete it. And thankfully, they gave me a chance to come back. I just told them I didn't feel well, so they rescheduled. So now I'm feeling a lot of anxiety because I'm scared the same thing's gonna happen when I go back.
Counselor：All right, so you weren't. You weren't feeling great about taking the test in the first place?
Client：The day, the night before, I felt like, I know all the answers, but the minute I walked into the room, all of a sudden, all these fears kind of took over.
Counselor：But did you know that was coming?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：You did? Okay.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So you had some anxiety in advance. Yes or not? You did? Okay.
Client：I had some anxiety the day before, but when I reviewed it with my friend, I'm like, oh, I know the answer. So I thought that would kind of push it down. But I think once I got there, it all came back up to the surface.
Counselor：It erupted in that moment. And that prevented you. What do you think is leading to this?
Client：Well, I've always kind of struggled with tests. Like, I can remember when I was in third grade, I had to take this test because I was really struggling in math, and I had to pass this test in order to move to the next grade. And I thought, just like this test, that I was ready for it. I had a tutor, and I felt really prepared for it. And then when I took it, I failed and I was held back. And I feel like, you know, that was so. It was. It was really embarrassing for me to be held back. And I felt like. I don't want to say, but I did feel like a failure at the time because I felt like I really did know this. So I don't know why I couldn't pass the test.
Counselor：And since that you said this was third grade?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And since that bad testing experience, have you had trouble with tests since?
Client：Yes, I always feel really anxious. I mean, I'm able to pass tests, obviously, because I graduated from grade school and went on to high school. But it's so hard for me because of this anxiety that I feel that even though I may think I know it, I may still fail the test anyway. Maybe like a repeat of what happened.
Counselor：All right, so in third grade, you had a really bad testing experience, and as you moved forward from there, you've never really been thrilled about taking tests.
Client：No.
Counselor：But you've been able to adapt. You've been able to take them and still, like, pass them.
Client：Yeah. I mean, sometimes I get an a. So that's.
Counselor：That's good, right? Yeah.
Client：I mean, yeah, it is good. Yeah, it's good.
Counselor：But with this particular test, which is not for school, which is for work.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：This one. This is more of a stomach block for you.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：You have any ideas as to what may be making this test such a point of anxiety for you?
Client：I think it's just the fact that it's this promotion, it's almost like the same thing. Like, if I fail, I'm being held back, and I feel like it's reliving that moment of being held back. And that's like, a fear that I have, that by not being able to pass these tests, they're holding me back.
Counselor：So, really, that same feeling you had in third grade that's coming up with this test now, right?
Client：Yeah. I mean, I didn't put them together until now, but, yeah.
Counselor：And the other tests you've taken throughout the rest of grade school and high school, they didn't have that same value attached to them?
Client：No, because they didn't have all that pressure that it was either win or lose.
Counselor：Basically, you could take them again or take that course again, or I could.
Client：Take another test to raise the grade if I didn't do good on that test.
Counselor：So you maybe had more options in school.
Client：Yes. It wasn't fail, pass or fail.
Counselor：It's the pressure. It's the pressure of you need to get through this. And you don't have the safety nets that you had in school.
Client：Yeah. If I fail it, then I'm not going to be able to get the promotion. I would have to wait just like I did. I'm going to have to wait a certain amount of time, I think, an ear before I could take it again.
Counselor：So that is a lot of pressure.
Client：Yeah, it is.
Counselor：So is there any time limit to this tests for work?
Client：No, there isn't.
Counselor：There's no time?
Client：No.
Counselor：How many? Is it like a. Like a multiple choice?
Client：Yes, it is.
Counselor：Okay. And you seem like. Like you said you study the night before with your friend.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：You're really well prepared for it.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So I have a few thoughts about this.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：One is I'm wondering, you know, we've talked before about cognitive therapy, about the core beliefs. So I'm curious as to what you think about, like, what core belief may be operating for you now with this.
Client：Test, this work test that I could fail, and then if I fail, I could end up being a failure at all, you know, the things that I try.
Counselor：So something like I am a failure, or I'm. I'm bound to be a failure. I'm destined to be a failure.
Client：I would say, like, I'm destined to be a failure.
Counselor：Okay, so I'm destined to be a failure. So that. So that potentially is a core belief, right? That's operating?
Client：Yeah. I mean, that's what scares me. That's exactly the thought that I'm thinking when I'm about to take the test. And if I don't pass it, it's just going to have, like, this dominant effect of failure.
Counselor：Okay. So it could be a core belief, but it also seems like it's the automatic thought. Like, as you get ready to take that test, you're thinking I'm destined to be a failure.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And you're having what sounds like a panic response with the heart racing.
Client：Yeah. My hands.
Counselor：My hands shaking. Are you in the room alone when you're taking the test? Yes, you are. So no one's really seeing you have this? I wouldn't want to call it a panic attack yet. We haven't really gotten that far into it. But it sounds like a. It has some panic like features. Yeah, because it's not. It's interfering with you thinking clearly enough to get through the items. So. Okay, so one thought I have is you've. Have you ever had panic attacks in the past or anything like this? The third grade thing?
Client：No. Not really. I mean, sometimes I get worked up when I'm about to take a test, but it's only around tests.
Counselor：And what happens once you get worked up? Like, once your heart rate increases and you have the other physiological symptoms?
Client：When I actually do take the test, I kind of try to work through it and start trying to answer one question at a time to get to the last question.
Counselor：So, one possible strategy here is we talked about the adaptive response. Right. So which is that thought that you say to yourself, that self talk. I wonder if your adaptive response couldn't be, I can ride this out. Like, you have no time limit test.
Client：Yeah, that's true.
Counselor：I mean, the panic responses only maintained for so long.
Client：And I could also choose, like, maybe questions that I know the answer to automatically. So that could help maybe relieve some.
Counselor：Of that stress to get some, in a sense, to get some minor victories under your belt by, like, answering those. Right. You know you're closer to achieving your goal.
Client：Yes. And then I feel like I know. At least I know that. Like, they'll validate the feeling that I. Maybe I can pass this test.
Counselor：Mm hmm. So the more items you. You answer correctly, the less anxious you're gonna feel because you're closer to the end of.
Client：Yeah, definitely. Because then I start to feel more calm because I know that. I know these questions are definitely going to be right.
Counselor：So that's. So that's one. Well, that's a cognitive and behavioral strategy. Right? Like, you can. You can wait out the. The panic. I mean, you're in the room alone.
Client：Yeah, that's true. Nobody's there. Nobody's gonna see me. I'm kind of trying to get myself together.
Counselor：Yeah. Now, the panic's painful. Right? The panic symptoms are painful. So what you could tell yourself is, yeah, this is unpleasant, but I can ride out these symptoms because they only last so long.
Client：Okay. I could use, like, self talk.
Counselor：Exactly.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Yeah. Cause usually panic symptoms can run five minutes, ten minutes, 15 minutes, but you have no time limit.
Client：Yeah, yeah.
Counselor：So if you can just kind of use that time to focus on the items, as you mentioned, that you could get. Right. And kind of, at the same time, be telling yourself, I can ride this out.
Client：Yeah. I mean, I've done that in the past, so I can apply it to this test.
Counselor：So that's worked for you?
Client：Yes, that has worked for me in the past.
Counselor：So that's certainly. That's certainly one adaptive response to try. Right. Another one could be that, although it wouldn't be great to fail, you can retake the test in a year, right? You could try again.
Client：Yeah, that's true.
Counselor：I mean, I know that's not what you want, but the alternative is kind of buying into that automatic thought. We know that's not working. I am destined. That was the word, right? I'm destined to be a failure. We know that's not working for you.
Client：So even if I have to take the test again in an ear, then I'm not going to be a failure because I still have the chance to take it again. It's not like I'll never be able to take this test again.
Counselor：Yeah, you'll just have. You just have another year to study, right? And of course, you wouldn't have that promotion that time, and that would be an outcome I know you don't want. But it's not the end of your career. It's not like something so drastic. It's important to you, and I can appreciate that, but it's not the end of your career. You're not going to be unemployed.
Client：No, no. Definitely nothing. Just thinking back and relating it back to the third grade. Even though I had to stay back, I still managed to do well the next year and keep moving up. It hasn't really, in the long run, prevented me from doing anything that I wanted to do.
Counselor：So that's great. That's another adaptive response, which is I've survived this before.
Client：Yes, I definitely have.
Counselor：So this one event, I mean, I know you had the incident grade with the unpleasant experience, but this one event, you don't want to let this kind of fashion. Well, use your word, your destiny. Right. Like this was one unpleasant event that seemed to catch you off guard with the panic like symptoms. And fortunately, your employer is going to give you a chance to retake it. Try this again. And I imagine. So you have. I imagine you can write out these symptoms, and I think you have the other adaptive response, which is. I've been successful with this before.
Client：Yes. I mean, definitely. I feel a lot better now because I just know that no matter what happens, I've been here before and I can get through it, as opposed to that feeling that I'm going to just fail altogether.
Counselor：All right, so what we'll do is. When do you have to take the test?
Client：Next week. Next week.
Counselor：All right, so let's schedule one more appointment right before that.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Right. And we'll make sure that you have these adaptive responses down and you're ready to go.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：And really, we'll kind of focus on the positive outcome. Right.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Which is just taking this test, taking one item at a time and fighting through some of these physical symptoms you're having and fighting through the unuseful thoughts.
Client：Okay. Yeah. I mean, that sounds good because it helped me prepare for the test.
Counselor：Great. So, Michelle, I'll see you. I'll see you then and work through it. I really appreciate you coming in today.
Client：Okay. Thank you.