Counselor：Hi, Carly. How you doing today?
Client：Doing okay.
Counselor：You doing okay?
Client：I guess, yeah.
Counselor：Not sure.
Client：I don't know, just the same.
Counselor：Yeah, still a little down.
Client：Yeah, I've been sleeping a lot. Going to work is a struggle. I don't really ever want to go. Just I haven't been eating much, so I think I've lost like ten pounds since past, like four months or so.
Counselor：Past four months?
Client：Um, just the guy. I don't know, I just haven't really been doing anything.
Counselor：You still been working?
Client：Well, yeah, yeah.
Counselor：But not much else?
Client：No, I usually just go to work and go home.
Counselor：Tell me what happens after you arrive at home, like after work?
Client：Um, well, my fiance tries to talk to me and really I just kind of want to go to sleep for just. I don't know. I tried, I tried reading the other day. Cause I used to like that and it's just, I think I got like into two pages and put the book down and decided to go to bed.
Counselor：What were you thinking when you put the book down?
Client：Just that I wasn't really happy doing it. I didn't really get any enjoyment out of it.
Counselor：I. And before you were depressed, which is, I guess about eight months now, you did enjoy reading?
Client：Mm hmm. Oh, yeah, all the time.
Counselor：So what would you have thought if you had to put a book down back then?
Client：Oh, I used to fall asleep reading. I would be up till like two in the morning just reading a book.
Counselor：Something you look forward to?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：But not now?
Client：No, I just didn't really get any. I just wanted to try it and then I put it back down and was like.
Counselor：Were there other things that you used to enjoy doing that you don't feel motivated or comfortable to do now?
Client：Yeah, I used to be a runner and then I tried going for a run the other morning with my dog and I. I think we walked a block and that was pretty much it. I just couldn't wait for it to be over.
Counselor：Alright, so it wasn't a pleasant experience. Was there any part of it you connected with when you were running, like when you first started?
Client：Not really. I mean, it was a change to be outdoors and I realized I hadn't really seen the sun in a while, so. But other than that, I just, I had the intention of going out to run. I had my running shoes on and my dog was really excited. And then by the time I got out there, I was like, yeah, we're gonna walk. And then I thought about walking like our normal route. And by the time I got to the corner, I was like, yeah, we're gonna turn around and walk back.
Counselor：So what was the feeling like when you returned to your home after planning to run and then kind of walking and coming back?
Client：Kind of a mix of, like, relief just because it was over, and then, I guess more sadness because I didn't do anything. I didn't do what I had intended to do.
Counselor：Sadness, maybe disappointment.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So I've seen you a few times now, and based on those conversations, and, of course, what you said today, it seems like you have, for a variety of reasons, given up on the activities that you used to enjoy, you're not motivated toward them anymore.
Client：Yeah, I guess you could say that.
Counselor：And that's a common symptom of depression. I think we've talked about this a little bit before. So it's tough when you're depressed to find joy, satisfaction, happiness in activities that you once enjoyed. So we've been working with the cognitive piece. Right, like we did last time, we talked about the automatic thoughts that come up and kind of how that leads to some of the feelings of sadness and what we can do with the self talk. I'd like to talk about a different technique today that approaches the problem from a different angle. We'll continue to work the cognitive angle, but I want to add a new angle. And the technique is called behavioral activation. The theory behind it is that if you engage, if you schedule and engage in activities that you once enjoyed, even if you kind of have to fight your way through it a little bit, like with the running, that will connect to your mood. Right. Remember, we believe in cognitive therapy, that affect and behavior and cognition are all connected. So what you're thinking affects your behavior and your mood and what you do. Your behavior affects your thinking and your mood. Does that kind of make sense based on what we talked about?
Client：It does, yeah.
Counselor：So you mentioned the reading was one thing you like to do. That's tough to do. Now you try unsuccessfully with the reading and I the running. Anything else you could think of that maybe we could plan for you to do, even if it's just a short time, even if it's a little bit uncomfortable, that we could plan to do? That would be an activity that you used to enjoy?
Client：Well, my fiance and I used to go out with two other couples, and we used to go out once or twice a week, and even if it's just each other's houses, but we haven't really seen them in a while. They've tried to schedule things, but I've kind of come up with reasons of not feeling well or to kind of just stay home.
Counselor：So they're trying to initiate meeting, going out, doing something, and you're. You're kind of pushing them off.
Client：Yeah, I just. I haven't really wanted to see anybody lately.
Counselor：All right, so that's. So we have reading, running, and then going out with these two other couples. Anything else you can think of that you used to really enjoy before that you can't quite motivate yourself to do now?
Client：I mean, I used to like going for, like, just walks and shopping with my fiance. Like, I. We used to spend a lot of time together, and lately it's just kind of. I come home, say hello, we eat dinner, and then I kind of do my own thing.
Counselor：So spending time with your fiance outside the house in some manner? Shopping was one example. Any other activities like movies or going out to eat?
Client：Yeah, I would kind of put those in with the things that we would do outside together. We would try to switch it up every now and then.
Counselor：Okay, so that's distinct from what you did with the couples because that's just you and your fiance?
Client：Yes.
Counselor：So let's do this. What kind of books do you like to read?
Client：I like a lot of fiction. I do a lot of reading for school, so I usually enjoy those books too. Mystery novels.
Counselor：Mystery novels. Okay, let's center on mystery novels. How long would it take you to read, say, a chapter of a mystery.
Client：Novel, roughly, depending on the size of the chapter, probably a couple minutes normally.
Counselor：So not long at all.
Client：No.
Counselor：So you could get a lot of reading done in, say, ten minutes, like something worthwhile. And how often would it. How often would you, what was the duration of a run? Like when you would go run? How long would it take?
Client：Probably, like a half hour.
Counselor：Half hour.
Client：Half hour to 45 minutes. Yeah. I used to do long distance running, so.
Counselor：Okay, and how often would you do that?
Client：Three or four times a week.
Counselor：Three or four times a week? Half hour, 40 minutes. And you mentioned you went out with the couple once or twice a week. How often would you go out with your fiance?
Client：I would say we try to do something every day, like, even if it was just going for a walk together, like around the park or walking the dog together.
Counselor：Okay. So I'd like to make collaboratively with you a schedule that involves those four activities, but I want to make it realistic. You tried a couple times, you weren't successful. So we don't want to be too ambitious, but I want to try to plan a schedule. You can get the habit of doing these activities again. So let's start with the kind of, I guess the simplest in terms of logistics, which would be probably the reading. Would it be possible, say, five nights out of seven, to read for ten or 15 minutes? Like, I know you're going to have to force your way through it a little bit, but I think it's something.
Client：I could try to do.
Counselor：So you're going to have automatic thoughts that come up, right. Like, just like you did before, and you're going to be tempted to give up. I want you to try to push through, say, this at least ten minutes. So focus on that as you go into it. It's a behavioral exercise, of course. It has a cognitive component to kind of think, you know, I just have to make this ten minutes.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：And again, you might not really enjoy it the same way it did before. We kind of know that, but over time, that may change.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：All right, so does five nights a week seem reasonable? That's 50 minutes a week.
Client：Yeah, that seems fine.
Counselor：Okay, then let's move to the running, because you just recently tried that. You run with your dog. You said, yeah, okay, how about that? Twice a week. Would that be possible?
Client：Yeah, I can try to do that.
Counselor：What days of the week you think you could do it?
Client：Probably the weekends. So probably like Saturday or Friday night or Saturday morning.
Counselor：Okay, so Saturday morning and Friday night, would you run Friday night and then again Saturday morning?
Client：No, I guess not. So probably I'd see maybe Wednesday night and Saturday morning.
Counselor：Okay, so Wednesday night and Saturday morning run for, say, a minimum of a half hour.
Client：I can try for that, yeah.
Counselor：Again, remember, you're gonna have these automatic thoughts, likely that will be telling you that you should stop, but you have to kind of talk your way through that or do the best you can.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Right. The adaptive response maybe being something like, in the end, this will help me. It's tough now, but this will help me. Okay, so let's look now toward the more social aspects. Logistically, moving up the ladder here to the most complex. It sounds like going out with their fiance would be the next. At the next level.
Client：Yeah, he's. I don't know if he's kind of just been mad at me lately or if he just thinks I need to be alone, but we've kind of been getting some distance there, so I think that would, out of everything, that would be the relationship I'd want to work on the most.
Counselor：Focus on. All right, so maybe you're running Wednesdays and Saturday mornings. Could you go out and do something to fiance twice a week.
Client：Yeah, I think we could manage that.
Counselor：Cause sometimes you said you just walk around, like, the neighborhood, so it's not even. Doesn't have to be necessarily, like, a lot of time. It's just something.
Client：Mm hmm.
Counselor：All right. What do you think you can do to motivate yourself to do that?
Client：I don't know. I guess just having, like, him maybe remind me or suggest it.
Counselor：So you could tell him that this is something that you're planning to do and you might need a little push to. To do it.
Client：Yeah, pretty much.
Counselor：Or to maintain it.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So you might get outside the same thing when you run. You might want to come right back in.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：All right. And then moving to the most complex, but also the one with the highest social engagement, going out with the two couples now, once or twice a week, you'd mentioned before. How about we shoot for. How do we shoot for now? Once every couple weeks?
Client：I think I could handle that.
Counselor：Like, maybe a Saturday night or a Friday night.
Client：Yeah, I think that could work.
Counselor：What can you see being an obstacle there? Like, what might help you be motivated to continue that?
Client：Just having to actually go to their houses or go somewhere because they don't really live close to us. They're not far. But just the fact that we would have to get in the car, drive over there, and I would actually have to, like, look relatively nice. I can't just go and pajamas.
Counselor：So for this to work, that is for you to do it, you really have to schedule at their house. You can't have them come to you.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So that's one thing we know. You have to. You have to make some time and drive over there, or maybe if your fiance drives, whichever. But you have to.
Client：We physically have to go over.
Counselor：So once you're there. So it might be tough, like, to get in the car and make the drive over once you're there, how do you think it would feel?
Client：I don't know if it's like the run, I probably just want to turn around and come back.
Counselor：Do these couples know that you're down?
Client：I think they've noticed, and I think that's probably why they've kind of started to back off with asking us to do things. So I think they've noticed it, but they don't know, like, any. They don't know what's really going on.
Counselor：Are those relationships you're worried about losing because they're backing off?
Client：Yeah. Yeah. I. I mean, they're our closest friends, so I think we've known each other for a really long time.
Counselor：And could you see this behavior being one that brings you closer together with them? Like restore some of that?
Client：Yeah, I mean, I think it would definitely just us going. They might be a little hesitant because the past couple times they've invited us, we backed out. But I think it would probably be a step in that direction of restoring the relationships of. I mean, I would like to do that.
Counselor：Okay. So I want to review the plan and just make sure that we have an agreement because we're constructing this together. So I need your buy in reading five times a week for a minimum of ten minutes. The next level up was the running. And that was, that was Wednesday night and Saturday morning.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Going out two times with their fiance and then once every couple weeks, driving to your friends, going to their houses and spending an evening with them. All that realistic?
Client：I think so, yeah. I mean, I can try to get accountability with my fiance just to let him know my plan and then see if he can help me follow through with it, I guess.
Counselor：Good. Alright, so let's set that as the plan. And I want you to be aware that as I mentioned, the automatic thoughts might come in. Right. And kind of tempt you in a direction away from that. I also want to let you know that if you are unsuccessful in any one of those things, it doesn't mean you have to stop and not try again. Just take it as a small setback. And then the next time, for example, it's time to read or go out running. Just try again. It's not unusual in this exercise that you won't be able to complete all the behaviors that you've planned for yourself. Sometimes life gets in the way things happen. Sometimes the depression gets in the way. So can you appreciate that that might be discouraging? Like, you try it and you stop. Like you told me in the beginning.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Yeah. So just take that as a. You know what it is just a small setback and try to push forward the next time.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：And I want you to informally kind of keep a record of it. And when I see you next week, we'll see how it did. And specifically, I want you to keep track of what you were thinking and feeling through different stages of the behavior.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Can you record that?
Client：Mm hmm.
Counselor：Okay. So we'll go from there. That'll be your plan and I'll see you in a week.
Client：Okay. Thank you.
Counselor：Thanks, Carly.