Counselor：So one of the things that we know is that sometimes people who have difficulty with anxiety and things like that have also had some bad experiences in their lives. So I'm going to ask you some questions about some of your difficult experiences that you may have had. And I'm just going to ask sort of yes or no questions. I only need sort of headlines. I don't need a lot of detail about the things that happened right now, but I'm just going to ask you those questions. And if anything about this interview starts to make you uncomfortable, you can take a break. If I ask a question you don't want to answer, you can just say, pass, and I'll just move on. So it's really up to you what you share, but I do want to ask you these questions. Is that okay?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. So have you ever been physically hurt by anyone, any. Either as a child or an adult? You know, hit.
Client：Yeah, my. I had a boyfriend a couple years ago, and he. He would hit me sometimes, but we're not together anymore, so.
Counselor：Mm hmm. Was there other kinds of physical abuse? You know, did he do more than hit you? Was there anything.
Client：No, he would just slap me sometimes. Usually when he was like, if he'd had a really hard day at work and maybe he would be drinking or something. He wouldn't slap me when he got home, but I got out of that, so that's good.
Counselor：Well, it's good that you recognize that that was really not acceptable behavior and that you didn't want that in your relationship. And it's great that you were able to get away from that. That's really good self care, that you were able to make that decision and, you know, and make a different choice and create more safety for your. Yourself. That's really good.
Client：Thanks.
Counselor：What about sexually? Has anybody ever, you know, when you were a child or as an adult, touched you against your will, anything like that?
Client：Yeah. I don't really want to talk about it, though, but, yeah, when I was. When I was little.
Counselor：How little? Just vaguely ten. Okay. Okay. And was it a family member or a stranger or.
Client：It was. It was a family member, but I don't really like talking about it.
Counselor：Okay. You don't have to. Okay, great. Thank you for telling me that much. That's really all I need for right now. Although it may be important for you to talk about that later, at some point you can wait until you're ready.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Okay. As a child, you know, sometimes parents aren't very available, don't provide basic food, clothing, shelter, that kind of thing. Did you ever have that experience of being neglected? Hmm? What's going on, Tricia?
Client：I don't like all these questions.
Counselor：Yeah? Starting to get uncomfortable, huh? You feel that somewhere in your body, you're feeling that in your. Your body? Yeah. Sometimes these questions can bring up very difficult things. I know. Sorry. When you're feeling like this, what helps you?
Client：My cat.
Counselor：Hmm. Tell me about your cat.
Client：She's a jerk. She's a jerk? Yeah. She's not very friendly. Um, she's friendly to me, though, when I'm really upset. She, uh, she'll, like, cuddle with me on the bed and stuff, so she knows when I'm really upset. But it's great that she knows. Yeah.
Counselor：That's pretty amazing.
Client：She's just kind of a jerk. She'll bite and scratch it, whoever she wants to. She wants to be snuggled until she doesn't want to be snuggled.
Counselor：What's her name?
Client：Persephone.
Counselor：Persephone. That's a great name for a cat.
Client：She came with it, and I decided to just leave it.
Counselor：Wow. I like it a lot.
Client：Great.
Counselor：It's wonderful to have a cat named Persephone who's good at helping you when your feelings are difficult. That's really good. That's, you know, that's a blessing there. Can we go on with the interview now?
Client：Yeah, I guess.
Counselor：Okay. About continuing. Okay. I'm going to ask you some different questions. I want to ask you a little bit about your living situation. So what kind of housing do you live in?
Client：I have an apartment.
Counselor：Mm hmm. And how long have you lived there?
Client：Almost a year.
Counselor：So not that long. And who do you live with?
Client：Just the cat.
Counselor：Just per second. Okay. Do you feel safe where you live?
Client：Safer than when I was homeless.
Counselor：Mm hmm. Safer, but maybe not entirely safe.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Yeah. What makes you not feel that safe where you live?
Client：I've kind of a. Have a landlord situation. Mm.
Counselor：Difficult relationship with your landlord?
Client：You could say that.
Counselor：Can you tell me about it?
Client：I don't. I don't make a lot of money, and my hours got cut at work recently, and he said he was going to evict me, and I really didn't want to be homeless again, so he said if I had sex with him that I wouldn't have to pay my rent.
Counselor：Wow. That's really hard. It makes sense. So you agreed to that I didn't.
Client：Want to be homeless again.
Counselor：That's right. And in order to survive, anyone is going to do what they have to do. Right.
Client：But it sounds like that's what I keep telling myself.
Counselor：Mm hmm. But it's also upsetting you a lot.
Client：I just keep thinking, like, what if somebody finds out? And now I told you so, obviously people are gonna find out.
Counselor：Well, what do you mean people?
Client：Well, I mean, don't you have to tell people when stuff like that happens?
Counselor：No, actually, what you and I discuss is between us, and you'll get to decide what you want to do about that situation so we can talk about it. But you get to decide. I only have to disclose if you're going to kill yourself or someone else to somebody else. Those are, you know, or if you're abusing an elder. Those are the circumstances under which I have to let other people know. So this is something that's just for you and I to talk about. And as part of, you know, our work together, we can decide what's the best way to take care of yourself going forward. So it's entirely up to you what we do from here. And I totally appreciate the courage it took to let me know that that was happening. And I'm happy to be with you as you sort out what's really the best path for you going forward for your own well being. We'll work on that together. Does that make sense to you?
Client：Kind of. No one's ever said it to me like that before, so I thought you had to tell people. But no. If not, but no.
Counselor：And I should tell you that. Remember how I said earlier in the interview that people who've had adverse experiences like sexual abuse in their past or physical abuse in their past, that sometimes that's connected to what happens going forward?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Well, it's not. It's really common for girls who've experienced sexual abuse later in life to end up using or being in a position where they end up using that for survival purposes. So what you're experiencing is actually probably a lot more common than you think. But just like you didn't want to talk about it, you know, the reason you don't know that other people are doing that is because they don't have often talk about it. So that way you think you're the only one in the world who ever ended up in this position. But in reality, lots of girls who've experienced sexual abuse grow up and it changes something that then they end up putting themselves, they end up in situations. Now, obviously you didn't create this situation. Your landlord is the one who is proposing to use his position of power to get you to do something that isn't what you want to do. And you're not responsible for his doing that. You're not. You're just doing what you've learned to do to help you survive. And we can work together for you to figure out what other options you have and what else you can do. Do.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Does that make sense?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Good. Thanks. Thanks for being so open. So are you ready to continue with the rest of the interview?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Yeah. You're doing a really good job. A really good job, a lot of hard stuff. And you're letting me in and that'll help us to be able to, you know, figure out together what you need to do to, you know, help with your anxiety and to make your life work better for you.
Client：Okay?
Counselor：Okay. So now I'm going to ask you some questions about your. So we've come to the end of all the questions and thanks for hanging in with me. I know it was a lot of questions, but I feel like, you know, I've gotten to know you a lot by asking these questions. So actually you've done a really good job of helping me to sort of begin to piece together the puzzle of what we're going to work on together. So that's really good. So now that the interview is over, the next step will be we'll make an appointment before you go, you know, for you to come back. But I just want to ask you now, how are you doing? How are you feeling?
Client：Well, I'm not shaking anymore, so that's good. I think I'll be okay.
Counselor：All right. So if after this interview you go about your life and you start to have difficult feelings, what are some things that you already know that you can do to help yourself with those feelings?
Client：Well, I. I play the guitar, so I think sometimes that helps a little bit. And, you know, and then there's Persephone, the mean cat. Yeah.
Counselor：Yes. Uh huh.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And is there anyone in your life that you could call if you were having a hard time?
Client：Yeah, actually my best friend, she knows about all my anxiety and everything, so. So sometimes I'll call her and just say, hey, I really need to not, you know, be here or whatever. And she lets me come over.
Counselor：So that's great. So you have some ways to take care of yourself. I just want to make sure that the stuff we opened up in this interview doesn't end up interfering too much in your regular life. So thanks very much, Tricia, and I'll see you next week.
Client：Thank you.
Counselor：Take care of.
SPK_3：This scenario illustrates an example of a trauma informed intake or initial assessment. It's really important before beginning to ask questions about trauma to explain to the client exactly why you're doing that. And that also begins the psychoeducation about the connection between trauma and the kinds of problems that people have. You also want to give the client real control over what she shares. And there are a lot of things that I do to help that to happen. I tell her that she can refuse to answer or she can take a break. And when I do that, some clinicians will say, oh no, if I do that, then I'll never get through the intake in time. The thing is, if you're doing a trauma informed assessment, it's really more important to create a safe relationship than it is to meet your deadlines. And also, even though I offer people.
Counselor：The opportunity to take a break, they.
SPK_3：Almost never do because they want to get through the session as much as you do. Notice that we ask short answer questions, looking for headlines and not pressing for details. Again, we don't need that information, and that information might be dysregulating to the client. In this interview, when Tricia begins to share her experience with domestic violence, I maintain the nonjudgmental kind of approach and point out her strength in leaving that relationship rather than focusing her on the difficulty of being in that relationship in the first place. That also helps with re regulation. Eventually, the interview does create some dysregulation for Tricia, and it is important that I notice that and acknowledge it and then that I help her to re regulate. And the way that I do that is by focusing her on what she can do about it, what she normally does to self soothe when things are difficult. And of course, that's good information for me to help to have. And also it gives her some idea of what we can do together that will help her moving forward. In a real trauma informed agency, we would have gone over the rules of confidentiality before I ever asked Tricia a single question. In this role play, I wasn't expecting that issue to come up. And therefore, when I gave her the information about confidentiality, I left out some of the exceptions to confidentiality. In a real situation, it is important, even if the client has already heard them, to mention all of the exceptions so that there's never a sense of distrust because something has to be shared that she wasn't aware of. At the conclusion of an interview like this, it's really important to take the client back and check in and make sure how she's feeling at the end of the interview. And even if the client says that she's feeling okay. It's a good idea to create a safety plan for going forward about what she's going to do should feelings develop that are difficult afterwards.