Counselor：Hazel, how you doing today?
Client：I'm okay.
Counselor：What's been going on?
Client：Well, last time I started to tell you a little bit about one of my friends, my best friend, actually, she had this issue. So what happened was she went to a bathroom at our local library, and she found a video camera when she was going to the bathroom.
Counselor：In the bathroom?
Client：Yeah. She actually. Yeah. And she turned it into the police, and I guess because, like, she carried it, or she had found it, her handprints were on it, and they weren't be able. They weren't able to detect who actually did it. They weren't able to catch the person.
Counselor：Oh, they didn't catch the person?
Client：No. So since then, I've been on really just high alert. Like, I'm worried that that could happen to me, to my kids, and I'm just really worried because they didn't catch the guy, that him or someone like him could be out there.
Counselor：So he's still out in the community.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So how is it affecting your. Your daily life? Can you tell me kind of what your. What you've been feeling?
Client：Um, a lot of anxiety just not knowing, maybe, you know, what if someone were to videotape me like that? I've been very aware, shall I say, of cameras.
Counselor：Okay. So anxious and aware.
Client：Right. Like, I know you have one in your office, and people on their cell phone cameras. Just all the possibilities that I could be recorded. I've just been very aware of them, which makes me not want to go anywhere. So I've been having arguments with my husband a lot because he wants to go out to restaurants, and I don't want to go because there could be cameras in the bathrooms and how I dress. Also, as you can see, I'm kind of dressed more conservatively because I remember hearing once about cameras that people use on shoes that could be used in a creepy way. And so I can't. You know, it's now almost summertime. I can't dress in skirts or be comfortable because I'm dressing like that.
Counselor：So you covered a lot of ground there. So you have the. You have the feeling of being, like, worried, nervous. Right. That's going to happen to you, but you've also had to kind of change your routine, or you feel you have to change your routine to feel safer.
Client：Right.
Counselor：Has that helped. Has changing the way you dressed or changing where you go and when you go, has that helped reduce the anxiety?
Client：Not really, no. I would say it's really starting. That's why I wanted to come in. It's really starting to affect my life.
Counselor：You mentioned specifically your husband. Like, what's been going on there?
Client：He just wants to go places with our kids, like, go out to eat. And I don't really want to go anywhere because, you know, cameras are everywhere nowadays, and I just kind of worry, like, public bathrooms, could they be there? Could someone be, you know, sometimes baby monitors are, you know, hooked up on so people can hack into that laptop, cameras. So even in my own house, I've just been really nervous, so I feel like I'm not really getting relief from that anxiety.
Counselor：Have you taken any precautions because of this persistent worry? I mean, I already mentioned, like, with the camera specifically.
Client：I mean, I've, you know, when I go into bathrooms, I've been looking for cameras to make sure they weren't there before. You know, me or my children have used the bathroom. I have tried. I read online that you can turn how to turn off the cameras on your phone and that you can close your laptop, and that way the camera will face down. And the same thing on a smart tv so it doesn't recognize your face. I've tried to turn things off. They don't need to be on as far as people being able to access my own information.
Counselor：And that seems reasonable. So you take reasonable precautions to try to avoid being video recorded against your will.
Client：Exactly.
Counselor：Okay. But still, you have this feeling of worry, anxiety, and your schedules being interfered with.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So you'd like to cope more effectively with your feelings, reduce this anxiety. So when you enter into a public bathroom. Now, we talked about automatic thoughts before.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Those thoughts just kind of pop into our head and they connect to feelings of that can be unpleasant, like anxiety and worry. So when you walk into a public restroom, what's the first thing that goes through your mind?
Client：That there might be a video camera that I don't see. That's maybe with my friend, it was big enough, but I might not catch it. And that someone's going to use that in a vulnerable way.
Counselor：Okay, so when you walk in, you're wondering if there's a camera there.
Client：Yes.
Counselor：And when that automatic thought occurs, what follows that in terms of a feeling or behavior?
Client：Usually I'll try and find the camera, but it's usually anxiety, fear. My heart rate starts going up. I start getting really anxious. And then, you know, I try and either rush to use the bathroom if I really have to go, or a lot of times if I don't, I'll just leave. Sometimes I try and use the bathroom so I don't have to go out.
Counselor：So your behavior is looking for the camera or sometimes just leaving without using restroom, and you're feeling that anxiety worry that we've been talking about. Okay, so, really, if we think about. We talked before about core beliefs, intermediate beliefs, and I'm wondering if the intermediate belief isn't I'm vulnerable, or this more specifically, maybe that's more of a core belief. More specifically, I'm vulnerable in this area, like, with this guy on the loose that committed that crime, and then that's combining with situations that you encounter, and that's where you're getting those automatic thoughts. Does that sort of make sense?
Client：Exactly.
Counselor：Okay, so you remember what, in terms of cognitive therapy, we like to apply what we call the adaptive response, or self talk.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So it's that thought that you interject at that moment, you realize you're having an automatic thought that's gonna lead to, in this case, anxiety and worry and behaviors that, while looking for the camera, isn't maybe an unusual behavior, but leaving, you know, that could certainly be an unuseful behavior. So, in terms of that self talk, let's work to develop a self talk response, something you can tell yourself to that initial. I wonder if there's a camera in this bathroom. What do you think you could tell yourself that would get in between that thought and I, the feelings you're having?
Client：I could say if when I walk in the bathroom, maybe I could say, you know, while there could be a chance that there's a camera in this bathroom, the chance of it happening is not very likely. And, you know, I'm going to take steps to keep myself safe so that I won't be in a vulnerable position, such as looking for the cameras.
Counselor：Right. That's good. So you have a low probability of it happening, and you're taking useful behaviors to minimize your risk even further.
Client：Right.
Counselor：So that's a good automatic thought, I think, or good adaptive response for the automatic thought. Rather, why don't you try that one out the next time you have that automatic thought? Try out that. I think that's really logical. It's unlikely to happen. Of course there's a chance, and we acknowledge that in the self talk, there's a chance that it could happen, but there's precautions you can take, and it's a low chance sometimes as well. So keep that automatic thought. We'll review it at the end before you leave today. We'll write these down. But that's one adaptive response, rather, that I want to write down for you. I also want to talk about the worst case scenario because right now you have the anxiety and the worry about an event that while it's unlikely it could happen, it could happen. And I'm wondering how you think you would react if the worst did happen. If you used the restroom and you found out from law enforcement or by finding a camera that an offender had been watching you on a recording. I think you would react to that.
Client：I mean, I think I would be really upset. Upset. I think I would feel vulnerable probably for a while and be hesitant.
Counselor：But.
Client：I mean, I think ultimately I would be okay. My friend, this happened a while ago. She's starting to get to get over it and get back to her usual routine, although she's still hesitant. So I think I would be okay eventually, although I'd be really upset that.
Counselor：It happened and it would make sense to feel upset. That would be upsetting for anybody. But as you noted, that would probably be relatively temporary, that distress, right. Well, acute. And certainly you wouldn't be happy about it and shouldn't be happy about it. It would probably go away. You'd probably learn to adapt. How long have you been in this state of anxiety and worry?
Client：Probably it happened, like, two months ago.
Counselor：Two months. And how many days in the average week are you affected by these feelings?
Client：Usually every day.
Counselor：Every day. So if we can compare it, right, we have the chances of being recorded. Right. Illegally. That's a low probability event. It can happen. Probably not likely. The anxiety and the worry that you're having, that's a high probability event because you're suffering from it every day.
Client：Yeah, that's true. I never thought about it that way.
Counselor：So there's a point at which maybe you reach and you say, I'd rather take. I'd rather take the risk. I'd rather deal with the potential consequence of an unlikely event of being recorded and face that if it happens, than be in the state of anxiety and worry.
Client：Right. Because right now I'm suffering every day.
Counselor：Right now you're suffering, right. If you could adaptively respond effectively, you're still going to have that risk of being recorded, but, you know, you could survive that event if it happened, right?
Client：Yeah, I think I could have.
Counselor：And you're taking reasonable cautions and, you know, all the things we talked about. So as you think about this in a more general sense, is there an adaptive response you could apply to that, to that automatic thought of, I need to be worried about this, or whatever that thought looks like. Sometimes the thought's an image, right? Maybe an image of being recorded, but whatever that kind of general series of automatic thoughts are that are getting you anxious and worried before you even get out of the house. What adaptive response could you apply there?
Client：Maybe, like I said, I'm worried about all the cameras. Maybe I could say, I understand there's some cameras that, you know, used for good purposes, like security.
Counselor：Probably most are right.
Client：And the chances of being recorded illegally are not likely. And I'm taking precautions to, you know, go to the right places, the good area, good areas. So it's not likely to happen overall. And me going outside the house is worth the risk, you know, the minimal risk that it would happen. And if it did happen, I could survive.
Counselor：That's great. That's a great adaptive response. Yeah. And actually, that's kind of a few adaptive responses, but that's good. And you can apply them, and we'll kind of break them down. Like I said before you leave today, we'll break those down so you can hammer it down as you go out. And I think it's important because the automatic thoughts tend to spring on us quickly. It's important to rehearse these adaptive responses so we're ready to go and kind of, we're preparing ourselves to apply that adaptive response. And in order to be prepared, you have to know what it is. So it's good to have it written down and kind of more or less commit to memory.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Does that kind of make sense?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：All right, so before you leave today, I'll take care of that, and I want you to use those adaptive responses for this week. I'll see you next week and record what the outcome was every time you're able to apply the adaptive response. And that includes what you felt and what you actually did.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：And, of course, as you mentioned, any physiological reactions like your heart racing or anything like that. So that's really. That's a behavior. But note both physiological behaviors and other behaviors. Once you're consciously controlling. And then any feelings. And we'll go through them. We'll go through each time you use it one by one, depending how many there are. I and kind of see if we need to adjust the adaptive response and see how well it's working.
Client：Okay.
Counselor：Does that sound like the plan?
Client：Yeah, I think that would be really helpful.
Counselor：So we'll go from there. And I appreciate you coming in today.
Client：Thank you very much.
Counselor：Thanks.