Counselor：Hi, Susan. How you doing today?
Client：I'm okay.
Counselor：You? Okay? I know that when you saw me last time, you were going through a bit of a struggle. How things go in with that, it's still a struggle. Yeah.
Client：I'm planning a surprise party for my husband.
Counselor：Okay.
Client：And his mother doesn't talk to me.
Counselor：So you're planning a surprise party for your husband? His mom doesn't. Doesn't talk to you?
Client：No.
Counselor：That must make things tense.
Client：Really tense.
Counselor：Really tense, yeah.
Client：So she doesn't really try to interact with her grandkids or me. And the way I was raised is the matriarch is going to, you know, make all attempts to, you know, keep the family connected. So I try to call her and let the kids talk to her, but she won't answer her phone. And now with the party coming up, I would like her to be there, but she's not responding.
Counselor：And just so I can get a little bit of background, understand. Is this relationship new or this dynamic new or. You've been part of this family for a while?
Client：Yeah, we've been married for five years and dated for about eleven, but we dated in the past and, you know, lost, parted ways and then came back together later.
Counselor：And this dynamic with his mother not talking to you, that's been the whole time?
Client：Yeah, she. So during, when I got pregnant with my first daughter, before we got married and he was away at school, so she felt that I was trying to interrupt his studies and trap him. So she's been. She disapproved of the relationship from the beginning for the wedding. She had insight and she kind of like, just took over my wedding, like.
Counselor：In terms of organizing it.
Client：Yeah. So.
Counselor：So she dis. You're saying that she disapproves and that she felt as though you were trying to trap her son. How do you. How did you come by this information?
Client：Well, when I was pregnant, she told me.
Counselor：She told you? Okay, so it's not something that you're the. You were reading into it or guessing. It was fairly direct.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：And in kind of those words?
Client：Yeah. Yeah, she. She. Well, I guess not. Maybe she. She kind of said that he's in school, he's not ready for a kid and suggested that I have an abortion.
Counselor：So she made that suggestion to you and made it clear that she disapproved of the whole. The whole relationship or just the timing?
Client：I think it's the. My feelings is the whole relationship. Because she just. Because now he graduated, he has a great job, we have three kids. He's able to do whatever he wants to do, and she still behave in the same way. So I would think it's the whole relationship.
Counselor：So you feel as though your relationship with him has been productive for you, for him, for the children? Like it's been a success?
Client：No.
Counselor：No. You don't feel that way? You feel it's been failure?
Client：Some aspects, I guess. I really believe in family. My family's not here, so I think it's really important that the family I'm a part of is together. So if I'm the cause that this family is not together is really her fault.
Counselor：So you're really hurt by all this, and you feel like all these relationships, none of them have been productive and successful. This has been anxiety provoking, frustrating, sad. How long have you been in this, with these emotions, with the anxiety inside this?
Client：Um, I'll say, like, maybe the last, like, maybe three years.
Counselor：Three years you've been suffering this?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：This way?
Client：Yeah. Because we, we tend to end up in, like, the same, the same mix of active, like, people and activities. And she treats us well. She treats me like I'm. I'm not even there. And then there's the kids. That's just. I don't know what to say to them.
Counselor：So she treats you poorly, like you're not there. She doesn't interact much with the kids or at all.
Client：Right.
Counselor：And how about with your husband? With her son?
Client：I guess they still need him for stuff. So he can talk to them. They'll talk to him. He still pays for her daughter, his little sister, Bondale, and she's an adult, and she lives with her mom, so they still depend on how to serve things.
Counselor：And you feel as though that's why there's still communication.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Otherwise, what would happen?
Client：I don't, like, I think. I think he's also kind of dependent on them.
Counselor：It goes both ways.
Client：Yeah. Because I. I kind of feel like there's no way he doesn't see how she behaves and knows how she behaves. And I don't feel that he is receptive to my pain.
Counselor：So you've conveyed to him that you have pain. This is. You haven't. So he doesn't know what's going on.
Client：No. So she, at one point in time, I think, said something to him about the. When I was pregnant the first time, which was kind of like insight into her feelings about what was going on, and I think he kind of just, like, brushed it off, like she was just being a mom kind of situation. But he has to be aware of his kids. Don't go over there. She doesn't call them. I had an incident where it was grandparents day, so I suggested to him that he, you know, take the kids over there and, like, call her and just kind of like, you know, celebrate grandparents day, you know? And so he came back in this, like his mom said, oh, this must have been Susan's idea. Like, what does that mean?
Counselor：She was sensing a lot of hostility, but there haven't been lately, anyway, a lot of direct conversations.
Client：Well, I tried to call her regarding the party, and I called, like, I guess, like, every day for, like, maybe a week. And when she finally answered the phone, she just said, susan stopped calling me and hung up the phone.
Counselor：So that's fairly direct.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So there has. There has been that. Do you have any evidence. Is there any evidence that suggests that her behavior is going to change?
Client：I mean, I would want to. I think, you know, if I was to hang in there and be the best parent I can be, maybe eventually she'll want to have a relationship with her grandkids. I'm not really worried about her liking me as much.
Counselor：You're not worried about that?
Client：Not as much.
Counselor：Not as much.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：But the children.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Okay. So even with that, you hang in there, and it's your hope that she'll come around, her attitude will change.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：But so far, it doesn't sound like she's giving you a lot of evidence that represent a lot of evidence that that's a likely outcome. But you can be hopeful. Of course. How about your emotions, the sadness, the anxiety? Is there something. Is that something you want to work on to resolve those absent of a change in her?
Client：Yeah, because I think. I think it's important to have family, and right now, all I want to do is, I think it would be best if I moved away, like, to another state, maybe.
Counselor：Do you think it would be better to move away?
Client：Yeah. So I'm wondering if that's just because I'm sad, you know? So maybe if I was to work on my sadness, then maybe I'll feel more okay with being here.
Counselor：Do you. With all this, you know, with all her disapproval and all these stressors, which sound really tough. I mean, what you've described sounds like a tough scenario where it would be understandable to be sad and frustrated. Do you feel as though you can move through all this if nothing in her changes? So let's just assume for a second that her behavior will never change. It may, but we don't know that. So let's just run an assumption that it is the way it is. Like, this is what you're facing. Can you at some level, be okay with all this in terms of frustration, sadness?
Client：I think so, yeah, I can try.
Counselor：I mean, is that. Is that a goal?
Client：Yeah, because I really can't control her.
Counselor：So.
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：It's not ideal, though. So the idea would be if she would warm up to you and engage in the family, kind of, as you. As you mentioned before, a more inviting role and friendlier and accepting. That's what you'd like, kind of in a perfect scenario. There hasn't been much in our discussion here in the way of evidence that seems to lead to that as a conclusion. Like, some change is going to occur. Does that make sense?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Like, again, it could happen. I have no way of knowing. It just doesn't seem likely based on what you've introduced. So that leaves you not on your own, but that leaves you without her as a support to work through all these emotions. What do you think about when I say that?
Client：I think that it's going to be.
Counselor：Hard.
Client：Because I do consider how her behavior affects my kids, but I know I probably would have to, like, let go of one of her approval in order to be a better, like, more involved parent instead of just, like, kind of allowing myself to stress over that relationship. So if she. The invite has always been there, she can always engage with the kids, she has contact with her son. So it's not like, you know, I'm stopping her from being involved.
Counselor：So what you're saying is that. That. That desire for approval, that's what's causing these symptoms. That's what's maintaining them, and that's what you want to be able to let go of, is that desire. So you have a belief at some level that she must give you approval. There's a belief in there somewhere that reads something like that, yeah. She should give me approval.
Client：Yeah. I think I'm a pretty likable person.
Counselor：Okay. You're a likable person. Right. And I would agree. You're a likable person, and it would make sense. She should give you approval. That's kind of the belief, yes. And the consequence of that belief, when it meets the reality that she doesn't seem to be giving you approval, is that sadness and frustration and anxiety, does that make sense?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So that belief, the belief that you're a likable person is realistic, and that seems like a useful belief. But the belief that she should like you, that belief doesn't seem to be serving you as well.
Client：No, it's not.
Counselor：It doesn't seem to be. Is there another belief that could be substituted in for that? That kind of think about that belief is very rigid. Right. She must. She should like me. That doesn't leave much room for an alternative. Is there another belief that we could work on to put in place of that, that may more accurately reflect what's going on?
Client：It's okay if I believe that I'm a likable person, but it's okay that others might not feel the same.
Counselor：All right, let's work with that. So I like keeping the I am a likable person. Right. I like keeping that part. So you'd say I'm a likable person, but it's okay if some people don't see that. So when you play that thought or resonate with that belief, what goes to your mind?
Client：That I can't really force people to like me or. Everyone has their own mind and they can make their own decisions, but it doesn't change who I am.
Counselor：Very good. I agree. Everyone has their own behavior. They're going to do what they're going to do. Sometimes we understand it, sometimes we don't. But it doesn't change your essence as a good person. Does that make sense?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：Do you believe that new thought? Do you believe it more than the old thought that she should approve of you? It's close. So there's a bit of a struggle there. So both beliefs make sense to you at the same time. So maybe as we continue to work, we can explore the. The evidence behind the. Well behind each belief and see if one of those beliefs tends to rise to the top, tends to get more traction. Does that make sense?
Client：Yeah.
Counselor：So this week. So I'll see you again next week. So this week between session, would it be possible for you to kind of list out all the reasons that you were likable? Like, to list all your strengths. Do you know of a particular day this week you might be able to do that where you have time?
Client：I can. I can. I can probably do it when the kids, the two older ones are in Kumar. So I can do it then violently get out.
Counselor：Okay. Do you kind of have an idea of the first few items you might put on that list?
Client：I think I'm sensitive. I'm Karen. I am generous. I am a good mother. I am.
Counselor：A good cook. Okay, great. So those items and I hope you will think of some more. So put those on the list and build that list out. And next week, we'll start with that. We'll start by looking at that list, evaluating that evidence, and then we'll start looking at the other part of those beliefs. Does that sound good?
Client：Sounds good.
Counselor：All right. Thanks, Susan.